# FHIR-48774: add decimal as new concept in CodeSystem http://hl7.org/fhir/version-algorithm

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: @brian, would 2.31 be a version between version 2.3 and 2.4, or would 2.31 be something that happens a long time after 2.4?  In a true decimal, you can't go from 2.9 to 2.10, as that would be moving backward.  If this is intended to be truly two independent numbers, then we should call this "simple-semver" which is basically semver with only the first two components communicated.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/29/25
- **Created**: 11/5/24
- **Description**: There is a common need to used a business version of a Resource with a Major/Minor versioning algorithm that is not the same thing as semantic versioning (SemVer).  Generically this is represented with 2 integers separated by a . so can be considered a 'decimal' approach to versioning.  The suggested additional content to the VersionAlgorithm CodeSystem is code 'decimal', display 'Decimal', and definition 'Versions are decimals and ordered numerically'
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48774
- **Related Page(s)**: Change Management & Versioning (versions/compatibility)
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-version-algorithm.html
- **Reporter**: BrianAlper
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will define a new version code called

{*}major-minor{*}: Similar to semver, but having only two components - i.e. a major and minor (integer) version number separated by a ".".  The specific nature of what constitutes a major vs. minor increment is locally defined.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: add decimal as new concept in CodeSystem http://hl7.org/fhir/version-algorithm
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48774

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/29/25
Security: Public

@brian, would 2.31 be a version between version 2.3 and 2.4, or would 2.31 be something that happens a long time after 2.4?  In a true decimal, you can't go from 2.9 to 2.10, as that would be moving backward.  If this is intended to be truly two independent numbers, then we should call this "simple-semver" which is basically semver with only the first two components communicated.

### 2. BrianAlper - 2/16/25
Security: Public

2.31 would occur long after 2.4, so this is not a true decimal in a mathematical sense.   2.10 is very different than 2.1.   A "simple-semver" or "major-minor" code would be fine.  It is basically a 2-part SemVer instead of a 3-part SemVer if you ignore the meaning of MAJOR and MINOR.

In SemVer, a specific meaning (M
color: Color value is invalid AJOR version when you make incompatible API changes, 
color: Color value is invalid MINOR version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
) does not apply to guidelines.   Unfortunately, the exact meanings of MAJOR and MINOR are not explicitly shared by all guideline developers, so the intention of the code for versionAlgorithmCoding is to convey that a MAJOR-MINOR approach is being applied for versioning, but it cannot be as explicit and universally defined what makes a version MAJOR vs. MINOR in all instances.

### 3. BrianAlper - 2/16/25
Security: Public

The input is provided an a new code is needed to support MAJOR-MINOR approach to versioning, without explicitly defining what differentiates MAJOR from MINOR.

### 4. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722

