# FHIR-51603: Unclear if compartment inclusion is element- or search-based

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Also, the table for each compartment (e.g. https://build.fhir.org/compartmentdefinition-patient.html) should be clearer that "Inclusion for Criteria" is based on search parameter.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/5/25
- **Created**: 7/31/25
- **Description**: It isn't clear from the narrative sections of CompartmentDefinition whether the inclusion criteria for a resource in the compartment is based on the element name, a search parameter, or a FHIRpath expression.

Digging deeper, I do fine that the CompartmentDefinition.resource.param element short description and definition mention search, so I can only presume compartments are defined based on search parameters, but it seems that something so fundamental should be more visible and explicitly defined.

Also, for compartment RelatedPerson, Observation is included in the compartment based on the {{subject }}search parameter even though {{subject }}can return non-RelatedPerson resources. There is no need for a FHIRpath ofType(), or a RelatedPerson-specific search parameter. It would be helpful to be explicit about that.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51603
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CompartmentDefinition
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: In the scope section for CompartmentDefinition, will add the following paragraph:

"Each compartment definition is associated with exactly 1 FHIR resource type, identified by CompartmentDefinition.code.  The compartment also identifies all resources that are members of the compartment and what search parameters are used to determine membership.  A compartment instance (the set of all resources tied to the 'compartment resource' - a resource instance of the compartment's type) contains all resources found by searching using the associated search parameters with a value of the compartment resource.  For example, the compartment for Patient/123 would include Account?subject=Patient/123, AllergyIntolerance?patient=Patient/123, AllergyIntolerance?asserter=Patient/123, etc.  Resources may also be included in a compartment based on rules stated in resource.documentation, though the lack of a computable representation of the inclusion rules means there may be inconsistency in implementation."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Unclear if compartment inclusion is element- or search-based
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51603

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 8/5/25
Security: Public

Also, the table for each compartment (e.g. https://build.fhir.org/compartmentdefinition-patient.html) should be clearer that "Inclusion for Criteria" is based on search parameter.

