# FHIR-47736: use of # in requirement statement links breaks canonical url assumptions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Karl Naden
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I’d like to re-open this ticket to address a few additional concerns. The # character has a particular meaning in URLs (fragments) that is also called out explicitly in FHIR including in FHIR (contained resource links, literal or canonical). While the resolution recommends against including # in versions (already recommended in the general FHIR spec under the “Business Version” header in the discussion of resource versions), it doesn’t address two other possible uses of # in canonical URLs:

	Fragments in the base canonical URL: fragments
	References to contained resources: contained resource links, literal or canonical



Two ways to address are to:

	Explicitly describe individual statements of a Requirements instance as fragments with links to the details around canonical references and fragments and strong recommendations to avoid combination with other uses of the # character (fragments in the base canonical URL for the Requirements instance and references to statements in contained Requirements instances), or
	Use another character that isn’t allowed in urls, like ^ (may be other reasons not to use it, I haven’t done a full analysis)



I suspect that describing these as fragments is the right way to go, but worth a discussion.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/14/24
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: References to specific requirement statements are suggested to be of the form &#91;url#&#93;key, e.g., in the description of statement.derivedFrom. However, url is a canonical url and as such could potentially include a version indicated with a hash character, making these references difficult to process. Recommend using a different separator that doesn't have a specific meaning within canonical urls.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47736
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Requirements
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/requirements-definitions.html#Requirements.statement.derivedFrom
- **Reporter**: Karl Naden
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: use of # in requirement statement links breaks canonical url assumptions

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47736

## Comments

### 1. Karl Naden - 10/14/24
Security: Public

I’d like to re-open this ticket to address a few additional concerns. The # character has a particular meaning in URLs (fragments) that is also called out explicitly in FHIR including in FHIR (contained resource links, literal or canonical). While the resolution recommends against including # in versions (already recommended in the general FHIR spec under the “Business Version” header in the discussion of resource versions), it doesn’t address two other possible uses of # in canonical URLs:

	Fragments in the base canonical URL: fragments
	References to contained resources: contained resource links, literal or canonical



Two ways to address are to:

	Explicitly describe individual statements of a Requirements instance as fragments with links to the details around canonical references and fragments and strong recommendations to avoid combination with other uses of the # character (fragments in the base canonical URL for the Requirements instance and references to statements in contained Requirements instances), or
	Use another character that isn’t allowed in urls, like ^ (may be other reasons not to use it, I haven’t done a full analysis)



I suspect that describing these as fragments is the right way to go, but worth a discussion.

### 2. Josh Mandel - 10/21/24
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification made 2024-09-25 00:00:00.0 with vote Gino Canessa/Alexander Henket: 13-0-2//(Impact: Non-substantive; Category: Clarification; Version: null)//The separator between canonical and version is '|', not '#', so there is no conflict.  However, there may be some confusion over which order the parts should come in.

We will add a Best Practice invariant that checks that the canonical agrees with the following regex:

"(&#91;^\s\|#&#93;\:&#91;^\s\|#&#93;)?(&#124;&#91;^\s\|#&#93;)?(#&#91;^\s\|#&#93;)?"

(We can't enforce this as the official regex for historical reasons.  Editor should test the regex)

We will update the comment for MetadataResource.version to add "Version SHOULD NOT contain '#', as this character is used to separate the version and the fragment id.  If version does include '#', systems will not be able to parse the canonical."

### 3. Josh Mandel - 10/21/24
Security: Public

Karl Naden / Gino Canessa: 11-0-0

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 10/28/24
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2024-10-21 00:00:00.0 with vote Rick Geimer / Karl Naden: 11-0-0//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//# Introduce two new backbone elements: Requirements.statement.parent and Requirements.statement.derivedFrom. Both will have sub-elements key (string, 1..1) and canonical (canonical, 0..1).

	For Requirements.statement.parent:
	
		If only the key is populated, this refers to a parent statement within the same Requirements resource.
		If both key and canonical are populated, this refers to a parent statement in an external Requirements resource.
	
	
	For Requirements.statement.derivedFrom:
	
		If only the key is populated, this means the statement derives from another sibling statement in the same Requirements resource.
		If both key and canonical are populated, this indicates the statement derives from an external Requirements resource. The canonical must point to one of the Requirements.derivedFrom values present in the current resource.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 10/28/24
Security: Public

Motion to re-open: Josh Mandel/Richard Ettema: 9-0-0

