# FHIR-53933: Discretely define "hierarchical" circular references for use by above and below modifiers

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Corey Spears
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Do you have a recommended approach?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/17/26
- **Created**: 1/10/26
- **Description**: The concept of "hierarchical" resource references are defined on references to the same resource type, and are used by the :above and :below modifiers to search transitively through the hierarchy. The documentation points out that some circular references correspond with a hierarchical structure, and some do not.

This seems like something that should be able to be defined through discrete element-level metadata. If it can't be reliably determined for the base spec, there should be a standardized way to define these relationships at the profile level.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53933
- **Reporter**: DanielSchuster
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Discretely define "hierarchical" circular references for use by above and below modifiers

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53933

## Comments

### 1. Corey Spears - 1/17/26
Security: Public

Do you have a recommended approach?

### 2. DanielSchuster - 1/19/26
Security: Public

There could be a new multi-response CodeableConcept element in Element Definition allowing an element to define the codes listed here (part-of, build-on, etc) and additionally define whether the element allows circularity. Then the StructureDefinition for each resource can define it for reference elements that point to the same type.

