# FHIR-45872: Need something on the various 'Request' resources that explain the use of Task

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Jose to put together an initial set of proposed text.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/13/24
- **Created**: 5/13/24
- **Description**: Lots of implementers are used to the idea of "workflow" statuses being present on the Request resource rather than being managed separately via Task.  And so they migrate to using extensions rather than representing the workflow as they should.  We need a section that clearly explains why Task is necessary (in most cases), why workflow shouldn't be tracked on Requests, as well as some examples of how implementers can/should manage situations where their legacy environment has a single concept that munges the 'authorization' and 'fulfillment' together (contained Task, transaction Bundle, etc.)

Suggest putting a detailed explanation on Request and then linking to it from the various Request resources (as well as Task).
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45872
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Request Pattern
- **Related Page(s)**: (many)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will extend the "Fulfillment/Execution" section with the following additional paragraph:

In some systems, the notion of "fulfillment status" may be projected into a single overall status, which is then referred to as "Request status" (e.g. "Prescription status") - e.g. having Request statuses such as "requested", "accepted", "in progress" alongside statuses such as "draft", "on-hold", and "completed".  FHIR has specifically split these two types of statuses apart and tracks them in two separate resources.  The rationale for doing so is as follows:
 * It is not a given that fulfillment is necessarily sought for all 'active' authorizations.  It's not uncommon in some areas for an authorization to exist but the individual responsible for seeking fulfillment to never actually do so
 * It is possible for fulfillment of the same authorization to be sought multiple times - for example, asking one lab to fulfill an order, receiving a rejection, then asking a second lab.  The "rejected" status for the first lab needs to be tracked alongside the "accepted" status for the second lab.
 * In some cases, fulfillment might be sought for less than the entire authorization.  E.g. seeking performance of a single service repetition, a single set of tests, a single dispense, even though the authorization might cover multiple repetitions/sets of tests/dispenses
 * The 'Request' resource is often 'signed' - whether digitally or in some other manner and, as such it is problematic to have a filler revising the Request instance to change its status reflecting fulfillment progress
 * The fulfillment process often has complexities around tracking the details of progress.  E.g. specimen collection, specimen transport, initial assessment, drug packaged, insurance processed, etc.  Conveying this information in Task which has the ability to convey 'business' status, as well as the ability to break complex processes down into sub-Tasks, each with their own status provides a robust way of handling these complexities.

In situations where a source system does not track fulfillment independent of the Request resource, they *may* opt to surface the statuses dealing with fulfillment via one or more [contained] Task instances, though this still creates challenges around filling systems updating the Request instance and any signature mechanisms would need to accommodate this process.

 

We will create change requests against the various 'Request' resources suggesting that those resources include the following sentence in their Boundaries and Relationships section:

"The [MyRequest] resource represents an authorization for a service to be provided.  Details about the fulfillment of the authorization are handled by the [Task] resource.  For further information about this separation of responsibilities, refer to the [Fulfillment/Execution] section of the Request pattern."

We may want some re-wording for some requests (CarePlan, Appointment, Claim, etc.)
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need something on the various 'Request' resources that explain the use of Task
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45872

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/13/24
Security: Public

Jose to put together an initial set of proposed text.

### 2. Vassil Peytchev - 3/18/25
Security: Public

Applied

