# FHIR-43163: Clarification for slicing by referenced resource element value.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Elliot Silver We didn't want to inject your proposed wording into the table because the question of whether the constraints appear in a different profile or not is orthogonal to the type of slicing.  We've proposed additional wording which we believe covers what you were trying to get at.  Can you review and let us know if it addresses your concern and, if not, what you think it should say instead?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/22/24
- **Created**: 11/20/23
- **Description**: Please add "referenced resource profile" to the `value` and `pattern` rows (and other if applicable) of the discriminator types and notes tables in section 5.1.0.13 (Discriminator).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43163
- **Related Page(s)**: Profiling
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/profiling.html
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarification for slicing by referenced resource element value.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43163

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/22/24
Security: Public

Elliot Silver We didn't want to inject your proposed wording into the table because the question of whether the constraints appear in a different profile or not is orthogonal to the type of slicing.  We've proposed additional wording which we believe covers what you were trying to get at.  Can you review and let us know if it addresses your concern and, if not, what you think it should say instead?

### 2. Elliot Silver - 4/24/24
Security: Public

Looks good.

### 3. Elliot Silver - 4/24/24
Security: Public

Proposed text looks good.

