# FHIR-40954: Clarify that mappings can be removed

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Chris Moesel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I'm noticing now that the approach for removing these elements is not specified, and that perhaps that is part of the confusion. Should the elementdefinition-suppress extension be used to remove these?
- **Assignee**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Comments**: 4/25/23
- **Created**: 4/25/23
- **Description**: In 5.1.0.8 Profiling descriptive elements, the table indicates that mappings can be removed. However, 5.1.0.9 Using StructureDefinitions says:
Note that structure definitions cannot 'remove' mappings and constraints that are defined in the base structure, but for purposes of clarity, they can refrain from repeating them.
This was raised on Zulip here, and Lloyd McKenzie indicated that mappings definitely can be removed and that this should be clarified in 5.1.0.9.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40954
- **Reporter**: Chris Moesel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Clarify that mappings can be removed

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40954

## Comments

### 1. Chris Moesel - 4/25/23
Security: Public

I'm noticing now that the approach for removing these elements is not specified, and that perhaps that is part of the confusion. Should the elementdefinition-suppress extension be used to remove these?

### 2. Gino Canessa - 12/9/24
Security: Public

Please document the intended process (as started in the Zulip thread) so we can vote on a clear resolution. Thanks!

