# FHIR-9197: Need to be able to re-use actions across Tests (and maybe setup/teardown)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Richard Ettema
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The request seems to correspond to the existing rule and ruleset elements. I would like time to review this request and evaluate possible approaches and impact to the TestScript structure and test engine execution.
- **Assignee**: Richard Ettema
- **Comments**: 11/7/16
- **Created**: 1/9/16
- **Description**: It's pretty common to have test scripts where there are multiple tests that are doing largely the same thing.  E.g. Post an instance, check for validitity, check for presence of certain things, etc.  And then do that for 5-10 different instances.  It creates a signficant maintenance issue when we have to copy the same actions over and over again.

         My recommendation would be to have a &lt;sharedAction/&gt; section which includes a list of parameter elements each having a name. and a list of actions.  The variable names c

         Then, within action, add "sharedActionRef" as an alternative to operation and assert.  It would include a refId pointing to the "id" of the sharedAction as well as a list of parameter name-value pairs.  The result of a logical expansion of sharedActionRef would be to substitute in all of the referenced actions, resolving any of the parameters passed in.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-9197
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestScript
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Propose adopting the changes described in the comments below.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need to be able to re-use actions across Tests (and maybe setup/teardown)
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-9197

## Comments

### 1. Richard Ettema - 11/7/16
Security: Public

The request seems to correspond to the existing rule and ruleset elements. I would like time to review this request and evaluate possible approaches and impact to the TestScript structure and test engine execution.

### 2. Richard Ettema - 1/18/17
Security: Public

Setting status to deferred while under review.

### 3. Melva Peters - 1/8/19
Security: Public

July 11, 2016: Grahame Grieve/Ewout Kramer: 8-0-1 - Considered for Future Use

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2019-01-17 00:00:00.0 with vote Richard Ettema/Rick Geimer: 7-0-2//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//We see the usecase - but it would require the creation of a resusable structure, most probably another Resource called "TestScriptAssert" - a rather big change that is currently not found to be urgently necessary by the users we discussed with. 

         We will defer this item until more use of the resource creates more clarity whether the benefits of doing this outweigh the cost.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/17/23
Security: Public

Richard will review

### 7. Richard Ettema - 4/24/24
Security: Public

I generated a local FHIR spec build with proposed updates. Here's are some screen shots:

New TestScript.common Element



Updated TestScript.setup Element



Updated TestScript.test Element



I do not believe the TestScript.teardown needs any updates.

### 8. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/29/24
Security: Public

A few more tweaks to make from today's call

### 9. Richard Ettema - 5/22/24
Security: Public

I have generated a new local build with the recommended 'tweaks'. The example TestScript has been updated to reflect these changes. Here are the updated screen shots:

TestScript.common new structure

	common.variable renamed to common.parameter





TestScript.setup.action.common

	TestScript.setup.common moved to TestScript.setup.action.common
	TestScript.setup.action.common.key renamed to TestScript.setup.action.common.keyRef
	TestScript.setup.action.common.variable renamed to TestScript.setup.action.common.parameter





TestScript.test.action.common

	TestScript.test.common moved to TestScript.test.action.common





TestScript.teardown.action.common

	Added TestScript.teardown.action.common
	TestScript.teardown.action.common description updated with "Action asserts SHALL be ignored for the TestScript.teardown."

### 10. Richard Ettema - 5/29/24
Security: Public

HL7 FHIR PR created - https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3084

