# FHIR-36933: Add a jurisdiction usage context type

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: artifact-jurisdiction already exists.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/4/22
- **Created**: 4/28/22
- **Description**: To support specifying jurisdiction when usageContext is used as part of the definition of an extension, create a `jurisdiction` code and add the Jurisdiction value set (https://hl7.org/fhir/valueset-jurisdiction.html) to the ConformanceUseContext value set (https://hl7.org/fhir/valueset-use-context.html)

The legal jurisdiction or geographic region for the context of use. Note that this context type is equivalent to the jurisdiction element present in canonical resources and is only used when specifying usage context as part of an extension.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-36933
- **Related Page(s)**: Metadata Types
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/valueset-usage-context-type.html
- **Reporter**: Bryn Rhodes
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: We will add jurisdiction to usageContext as proposed.  Needed for obligation and other places where usageContext is used other than base resource.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add a jurisdiction usage context type
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-36933

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/4/22
Security: Public

artifact-jurisdiction already exists.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/21/23
Security: Public

Extension was never created

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/21/23
Security: Public

Extension was never created

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/21/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification made 2022-05-11 00:00:00.0 with vote Josh Mandel/Rick Geimer: 12-0-0//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: 
{"keys":["R5"]}
)//We would like the extensions to mirror the Canonical resource pattern.  Therefore, instead of adding 'jurisdiction' to the UseContext data type, we will instead define a new extension called 'jurisdiction' with the same definition as the existing Canonical.jurisdiction element and with a context that mirrors the set of resources that are currently allowed by the UseContext extension.  This will avoid confusion about whether to convey jurisdiction as part of UseContext or as a distinct element and will also make it easier to independently manage conformance expectations for jurisdiction, as we can currently do for canonical resources.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/21/23
Security: Public

Motion to re-open: Grahame Grieve/Rick Geimer: 8-0-0

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Already done

