# FHIR-47629: Versions - Cardinality changes break parsing

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3181
- **Assignee**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Comments**: 9/27/24
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: In section 2.1.7.0.5 backward compatibility is defined as:
Backward compatibility means that instances created against future versions of the specification will interoperate with older versions of the specification. This is not guaranteed by FHIR, though there are strategies systems can adhere to that will increase their chances of such interoperability. Specifically, when dealing with content from a system supporting an unknown normative version and wishing to maximize backwards compatibility, applications SHOULD:
In section 2.1.7.0.5.1 we state that cardinalities may change after it becomes normative.
Cardinality Minimum element cardinalities will not be changed. Upper cardinality may change from 1 to * only in circumstances where all elements except for the first repetition can be safely ignored. Note that this may change the path to the element in some syntaxes (e.g. JSON). This may mean that an order is assigned to the repeating items or that there is no preference as to which element is retained. Systems should follow the rules above for unexpected elements.
The result of such a change is that the artifacts expressed in json will not be able to be parsed by older FHIR versions as the type changed from a singleton to an array.

Although I agree that such changes should be allowed post normative, these remarks seam to contradict. A possible approach would be add a remark to json parsing that an array should be expected. But that might be a non-trivial change (to another normative page).
- **Grouping**: [WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47629
- **Related Page(s)**: Change Management & Versioning (versions/compatibility)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.7.0.5.1 &
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/versions.html#f-compat
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Versions - Cardinality changes break parsing
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47629

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 9/27/24
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3181

