# FHIR-41623: cnl-0 requires SearchParameter.name to start with a capital

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Questions from FHIR-I discussion:


	Can the constraint on Canonical be relaxed, allowing for _ and lowercase letters in the starting position? Is that relaxation considered breaking? Grahame Grieve ?




	Do we need constraints on SearchParameter.code instead of name?




	Do SearchParameters really need a name and a code together?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/14/23
- **Created**: 7/25/23
- **Description**: SearchParameter.name has constraint cnl-0, with the regex `name.exists() implies name.matches('^&#91;A-Z&#93;(&#91;A-Za-z0-9_&#93;){1,254}$')` 

That means that the name should start with a capital character. But afaik none of the SearchParameters in the core specification adhere to that rule.

I think this regex should be `^&#91;A-Za-z&#93;(&#91;A-Za-z0-9_&#93;){1,254}$`
- **Grouping**: [ready-for-vote]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41623
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SearchParameter
- **Related Section(s)**: 5.6.9
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/searchparameter-definitions.html
- **Reporter**: Christiaan Knaap
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The intent is that the .name element is a proper class name that's legal across languages.  Starting with a lower-case letter isn't legal in many languages.

The SearchParameter names that are not expressed as UpperCamelCase (whether starting with lower-case or containing dashes) were erroneous.

Proposal is to correct all of the .name elements to follow the constraint.  We will check that this doesn't negatively impact existing implementers as some of our publications have erroneously suggested that some SearchParameters were normative.
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: cnl-0 requires SearchParameter.name to start with a capital
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41623

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 9/14/23
Security: Public

Questions from FHIR-I discussion:


	Can the constraint on Canonical be relaxed, allowing for _ and lowercase letters in the starting position? Is that relaxation considered breaking? Grahame Grieve ?




	Do we need constraints on SearchParameter.code instead of name?




	Do SearchParameters really need a name and a code together?

### 2. Ward Weistra - 1/7/26
Security: Public

Reporting back that Firely has no problem with fixing the erroneous `name` elements for SearchParameters to make them proper UpperCamelCase 👍

