# FHIR-46399: Need a mechanism to constrain additional bindings

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: It's not clear to me what the impact of this will be for either presenting profiles or implementing them. if you 'constrain' (or extend) an additional binding, has it changed? How has it changed? Is it wrong to use the binding that has been 'enhanced'? is the enhanced binding no longer presented because it's enhancement is?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/17/24
- **Created**: 7/16/24
- **Description**: When deriving a profile from another profile that has additional bindings, it may be necessary to constrain one or more of the declared additionalBindings.  This might mean tightening the binding strength and/or adjusting the value set (either to extend it or tighten it, depending on what the binding strength allows).  However, at the moment, there's no way to tell the difference between introducing new additionalBinding repetitions vs. constraining an existing additionalBinding.  One approach would be to add a mandatory 'key', similar to what we do with constraint.
- **Grouping**: [WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46399
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need a mechanism to constrain additional bindings

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46399

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 7/17/24
Security: Public

It's not clear to me what the impact of this will be for either presenting profiles or implementing them. if you 'constrain' (or extend) an additional binding, has it changed? How has it changed? Is it wrong to use the binding that has been 'enhanced'? is the enhanced binding no longer presented because it's enhancement is?

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/17/24
Security: Public

I would expect the same process we follow with the primary binding.  If you tighten the value set and/or the binding strength, the rendering shows only the tightened binding and not the original.  If you have an additional 'preferred' binding to a set of 20 SNOMED codes and then constrain that to a required binding of a subset of 10 SNOMED codes, displaying the original binding and value set is complete noise - and is confusing.  Also, there's a difference in intentionality when constraining vs. adding an additional binding that we could theoretically validate (i.e. that the constrained binding is indeed a proper substitution.)

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/22/24
Security: Public

Grahame Grieve  Caroline Macumber FHIR-I would like to use most/all of our Thur Q2 joint to talk about profiling rules around additional bindings

	what constraints/substitutions can occur around binding strengths/purposes
	Is binding strength &amp; purpose the same thing?
	What changes can you make to a min value set, max value set, etc?
	What changes can you make to the 'context' of a binding in a derived profile?
	How do you know when an additional binding in a child profile is constraining vs. adding to the set of additional bindings
	Also see https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46350

