# FHIR-41187: R5 missing StructureDefinition metadata for elementdefinition allowedUnits and question

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Is this something we should fix?
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 9/16/24
- **Created**: 5/3/23
- **Description**: Profile http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/elementdefinition-allowedUnits is referred-to by core R5 metadata files, but there is no metadata file StructureDefinition-elementdefinition-allowedUnits.json included in the core R5 package. Referring items:
. other/spec.internals
. StructureDefinition-elementdefinition-de.json
. xml/elementdefinition-de.sch

Profile http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/elementdefinition-question is referred-to by core R5 metadata files, but there is no metadata file StructureDefinition-elementdefinition-question.json included in the core R5 package. Referring items:
. other/spec.internals
. StructureDefinition-elementdefinition-de.json
. StructureDefinition-ElementDefinition.json

This is causing our metadata ingestion to get errors.

It is unclear if those files are unintentionally missing, or if the referring files need to be updated.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-41187
- **Reporter**: Paul Lomayesva
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: R5 missing StructureDefinition metadata for elementdefinition allowedUnits and question

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41187

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/16/24
Security: Public

Is this something we should fix?

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/8/25
Security: Public

It's fine for R5 profiles to refer to extensions that aren't defined in R5.  R5 depends on the core extensions package, just as it depends on the terminology.hl7.org package.  However, we do need to examine why these extensions are being referenced in spec.internals.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 1/12/26
Security: Public

Grahame will investigate why it is listed in spec.internals.  Otherwise, it is allowed for the core spec to reference extensions defined in the Extensions Pack.

