# FHIR-46191: Change Questionnaire.item.linkId from string type to code type

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Changing the data type would have required a binding, which makes no sense.  Opted to leave as a string, and just copied across the regex as a new constraint.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/11/25
- **Created**: 6/20/24
- **Description**: Refer to the discussion here:

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179255-questionnaire/topic/Trimming.20Questionnaire.2Eitem.2ElinkId.3F

 

The linkIds should be unique values across entire questionnaire. Currently its type is string, which allows white-spaces including at the beginning and at the end of the value. To avoid confusion for human reader, I suggest to remove the leading and trailing white spaces for linkId. In the discussion thread above, Lloyd McKenzie proposed removing white-spaces entirely from the value and use code type for the field? I support the idea. However, there is this comment in the comments section. So, I am not sure the implications of the proposal.
The LinkIds can have whitespaces and slashes by design. Tooling should not rely on linkIds being valid XHTML element IDs, and should not directly embed them as such
- **Grouping**: [SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46191
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Questionnaire

QuestionnaireResponse
- **Related Page(s)**: Resource Definitions
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire-definitions.html#Questionnaire.item.linkId
- **Reporter**: AjayKanduru
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Change Questionnaire.item.linkId from string type to code type

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46191

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/11/25
Security: Public

Changing the data type would have required a binding, which makes no sense.  Opted to leave as a string, and just copied across the regex as a new constraint.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/18/25
Security: Public

Git f0c9d3739

