# FHIR-41514: Summary page example is out of date

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/1/23
- **Description**: The summary page XML example now looks out of date and has several issues.
Firstly it is XML, and most people coming to FHIR will prefer to see JSON.
It is a DSTU2 example (using CareProvider, which is now GeneralPractitioner)
The id is "glossy". Let's change it to "example-id" or something less weird.
The last updated date of 2014 makes the page look old.
The suffix "The 7th" is very US centric and looks strange in other places (if we want to avoid the impression that HL7 is US centric).
The use of an identifier type is unusual, and not ideal for an introductory first piece of FHIR. It draws attention away from the system (a more important FHIR concept).
Organization/2 is an unrealistic identifier. Perhaps something like Organization/organization-id (also not realistic, but it looks less like it is trying to be).

perhaps this:
{
	"resourceType": "Patient",
	"id": "example-id",
	"meta": 
{
		"lastUpdated": "2022-10-13T10:41:00+11:00"
	}
,
	"text": 
{
		"status": "generated",
		"div": "&lt;div xmlns='http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml'&gt;&lt;p&gt;Henry Levin, PhD&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;MRN: 123456, Male, 24 Sept 1932&lt;/p&gt;&lt;/div&gt;"
	}
,
	"extension": [
{
		"url": "http://example.org/StructureDefinition/trials",
		"valueCode": "renal"
	}
],
	"identifier": [
{
		"use": "usual",
		"system": "http://www.goodhealth.org/identifiers/mrn",
		"value": "123456"
	}
],
	"active": true,
	"name": [
{
		"family": "Levin",
		"given": ["Henry"],
		"suffix": ["PhD"]
	}
],
	"gender": "male",
	"birthDate": "1932-03-24",
	"generalPractitioner": [
{
		"reference": "Organization/organization-id",
		"display": "Good Health Clinic"
	}
]
}
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41514
- **Related Artifact(s)**: DomainResource
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/summary
- **Reporter**: Rik Smithies
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will update the example to comply with R6

We will switch the example to be JSON rather than XML

We don't find the other changes convincing:

Most of our examples use old dates.  It would take considerable machinery to update them and there could be unexpected consequences to doing so.  While having machinery to allow automatic (and appropriate) date shifting for each new publication would be awesome if someone has the bandwidth to make it work.

"The 7th" isn't U.S.-centric, it's HL7-centric.  It's very definitely trying to NOT look like a real person.

Organization/2 is completely realistic in some servers, which do indeed treat resource identifiers as integers and start counting at '1'.

'glossy' is the id for the resource used to create the image (because it was a onetime used in a glossy PDF for FHIR) and also shows that resource ids can be pretty much anything.

 

While we're at it, we'll remove the reference to the Twitter hashtag on the page.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Summary page example is out of date
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41514

## Comments

_No comments in export._
