# FHIR-47363: Definition - version - linked to canonical or identifier or both?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: In the SubscriptionTopic resource, the version field is defined as 
Business version of the subscription topic

The origin of this string is the CanonicalResource and/or Definition pattern.

This sentence is ambigue. The word "business" is used in de description of the identifiers field and not in the url field. This gives the impression that it the version of the resource should be used in combination with the identifiers.

Business version is defined in versions. 
Business identifiers are defined in business identifiers. This section is limited to Identifiers and not canonicals. The text related to Canonical URLs later on the page refers to Canonicals as a special kind of Business Identifier.

Although I agree that the specification states that the business version applies to the resource which can be identified by both canonicals as well as identifiers, I had to dig quite deeply to locate the underlying definitions.

I think the specification would benefit stating in the description CannonicalResource and in all Canonical resources that the canonical url is also a business identifier.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47363
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CanonicalResource

SubscriptionTopic
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/canonicalresource-definitions.html#CanonicalResource.identifier
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Update the text on {{CanonicalResource}} to indicate this element represents the canonical version for consistency.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Definition - version - linked to canonical or identifier or both?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47363

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

