# FHIR-29212: CapabilityStatement state support of async

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Can you experiment with the proposed new 'feature' approach to describing capabilities in CapabilityStatement2 and see if/how it would work to meet your requirement?
- **Assignee**: Corey Spears
- **Comments**: 1/27/21
- **Created**: 10/12/20
- **Description**: How do I state in the CapabilityStatement that async calls are supported? At what level can I state this? It should be possible on server, resource and operation level.
- **Grouping**: [CapabilityStatement2]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-29212
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: CapabilityStatement state support of async

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-29212

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/27/21
Security: Public

Can you experiment with the proposed new 'feature' approach to describing capabilities in CapabilityStatement2 and see if/how it would work to meet your requirement?

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 6/14/21
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie, I took a look at it and the mechanism would work.

### 3. Bas van den Heuvel - 6/21/21
Security: Public

Add features (codes in the capability-features valueset) called: synchronous and asynchronous. 

The allowed values are true and false. This will allow searching for synchronous and asynchronous calls.

The feature can occur on rest, rest.resource, rest.interaction, rest.operation, rest.resource.interaction and rest.resource.operation level. 
In the case multiple are present the one deepest in the chain counts. A feature on rest.resource.interaction overrides one on rest.interaction.

### 4. Josh Mandel - 10/27/25
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification made 2021-06-28 00:00:00.0 with vote Ewout Kramer/Josh Mandel: 11-0-0//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//Will add the codes that Bas has proposed to the CapabilityStatement2 capability-features code system of properties.

### 5. Josh Mandel - 10/27/25
Security: Public

After 4y, we have a better understanding of how to resolve &#8211; e.g., we now expect the App Feature IG should define a general feature mechanism, and the API Incubator IG will define the features related to async...

### 6. Josh Mandel - 10/27/25
Security: Public

Corey Spears, after the App Feature IG has been published and the mechanism for externally defined features is clear, please bring this back to FHIR-I. We agree generally that we want to define features for discovery (including discovery of async support for specific operations, or general resource queries) inside the API Incubator IG.

