# FHIR-50120: Two questions regarding the Reference data type

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 3/26/25
- **Description**: Two questions regarding the Reference data type.

1. Should Reference.reference(a literal reference) and Reference.identifier(a logical reference) be mutually exclusive to each other in each instance, or can they coexist within a single Reference datatype instance.
If they are required to be mutually exclusive to each other, could we enforce this constraint by introducing an invariant in the Reference datatype, such as:
 
 not(reference.exists() and identifier.exists())
 
2. Is it appropriate to use a  Canonical identifier within Reference.identifier?
  If it is allowed, may we specify it explicitly in the description of Reference.identifier?

reference:
https://www.hl7.org/fhir/references.html


Some resource types have a defined element url which is the 'canonical URL' that always identifies the resource. This is a special kind of Business Identifier.

The canonical URL serves as a stable logical identifier for the resource
https://www.hl7.org/fhir/resource.html#identifiers
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50120
- **Related Page(s)**: References
- **Related Section(s)**: reference
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/references.html
- **Reporter**: Thomas Zhou
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: 1. It's absolutely fine to have both Reference.reference and Reference.identifier present at the same time.  We don't want to impose a rule that prevents that.

2. We will add some guidance to references.html:

"If the type of an element is Reference and there is a need to point to a canonical resource, the 'standard' mechanism for referencing is pointing to a server-specific location the same as any non-canonical resource.  Reference.reference MAY be populated by the canonical url for the resource, though this will only function if the canonical URL resolves.  Note that this style of referencing cannot convey the 'version' element.  It's also possible to specify a canonical url using Reference.identifier, where the system is 'urn:ietf:rfc:3986' and the value is the url.  (Note that the version can't be conveyed this way either.)  Systems that attempt to resolve references via Reference.identifier SHOULD resolve identifiers expressed this way, even if the canonical url is not included in the .identifier list of the canonical resource.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Two questions regarding the Reference data type
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50120

## Comments

_No comments in export._
