# FHIR-47603: Group definition still unclear for collective action scenarios

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: Group - still need to be clear if the definition of group is final as it seems to be missing the clarity or explicit ability for Practitioners/CareTeams/Organizations to take collective action as a group in certain scenarios/use cases
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47603
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Group
- **Reporter**: Marti Velezis
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "Represents a defined collection of entities that may be discussed or acted upon collectively but which are not expected to act collectively, and are not formally or legally recognized; i.e. a collection of entities that isn't an Organization."

to

"Represents a defined collection of entities that may be discussed or acted upon collectively but which are not typically expected to act collectively.  These collections are also not typically formally or legally recognized.

NOTE: Group may be used to define families or households, which in some circumstances may act collectively or have a degree of legal or formal recognition.  This should be considered an exception.  When Group is used for types of entities other than Patient or RelatedPerson, the expectation remains that the Group will not act collectively or have formal recognition - use Organization if these behaviors are needed.

For example, it is possible for a 'family' Group to be a performer of an Observation or owner of a Task.  However, this is not permitted for a Group made up of Practitioners, PractitionerRoles or Organizations.  Organization or CareTeam would need to be used instead.  A Group of Practitioners could, however, be a subject of an Observation."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Group definition still unclear for collective action scenarios
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47603

## Comments

_No comments in export._
