# FHIR-43117: Wrong link text for V2/V3 mappings

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This looks like a common pattern that is apparent across many resources. I expect that is tooling issue or an edit that is applicable to all resources.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 8/30/24
- **Created**: 11/14/23
- **Description**: This issue applies to the majority of resource types. Most resources have a Mappings tab with sections labeled "HL7 V2 Mapping (http://hl7.org/v2)" and "RIM Mapping (http://hl7.org/v3)". If you click on the links they go to the correct V2 and V3 standards pages, however if you copy and paste the link text you get an HTTP 404 error. Maybe those short links used to work but were broken in the recent HL7 web site improvements? We should either ask the webmaster to create working short links, or change the link text in FHIR to match the actual destinations.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43117
- **Reporter**: Nick Radov
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Wrong link text for V2/V3 mappings

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43117

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 8/30/24
Security: Public

This looks like a common pattern that is apparent across many resources. I expect that is tooling issue or an edit that is applicable to all resources.

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 8/30/24
Security: Public

Requests for further clarification/guidance on date/datetime/instant searches.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/16/24
Security: Public

Grahame will talk to Eric about whether we can make these links resolve

