# FHIR-55623: Subscription handshake is underspecified

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 2/6/26
- **Description**: The section on REST hook says:
After a successful handshake notification has been sent and accepted, the server SHALL update the status to active. Any errors in the initial handshake SHALL result in the status being changed to error.
And:

 
3. Server performs an HTTP POST to the requested endpoint with a handshake notification.

4.Client Endpoint accepts the POST and returns a success HTTP code (e.g., 200).
It isn't clear if there is an expected body in the response, or if any response code other than 200 is "success", eg. a 201 or a 3xx.

Channel basics says:
At a minimum, the following items should be defined: ...

	Whether handshake notifications are used, and guidance on usage if they are


Clarify in Channel Basics that the definition should include:

	which handshake response codes indicate "success";
	the content of a handshake response payload (or that none is expected);
	whether an OperationOutcome payload is expected in a non-success response (this would need to be optional because a handshake with an incorrect endpoint wouldn't necessarily know anything about FHIR).



Then update the definition of the existing channels (particularly REST hook) to provide these additional details.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55623
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Subscription
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscription.html#rest-hook
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Subscription handshake is underspecified

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55623

## Comments

_No comments in export._
