# FHIR-37960: Add IRIs to the list of Known Identifier Systems

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gaurav Vaidya
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This is related to the RDF subgroup's proposal to add IRI stems to terminology.hl7.org. You can read our detailed proposal, including security concerns, here: https://bit.ly/fhir-rdf-concept-iris-july-2022
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/25/22
- **Created**: 8/19/22
- **Description**: The list of Known Identifier Systems in FHIR (https://build.fhir.org/identifier-registry.html) includes Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), but not Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs, as defined by RFC 3987 at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3987). IRIs are the "internationalized" version of URIs that allow Unicode characters to be used in the identifier with some restrictions, which was defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in 2005. An IRI such as "https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/हृदय" can be percent-encoded into the URI "https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B9%E0%A5%83%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%AF" to be used as a URL, but the IRI is easier to read, particularly for readers of non-Latin languages, and is natively supported by many tools, including many browsers, HTTP libraries, and in the Resource Description Framework (RDF).

Currently, users cannot use an IRI in a FHIR Coding.code without either making up a Coding.system value for their own use or transforming the IRI into a URI so they can use "urn:ietf:rfc:3986" as the Coding.system value. This change would provide a Coding.system value for IRIs, allowing these widely used Unicode-based identifiers to be used to identify entities in FHIR.

Proposed additional identifier:


	identifier: Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) as defined by RFC 3987
	URI: urn:ietf:rfc:3987
	OID: &#91;to be registered if necessary&#93;
	Type: &#91;none&#93;
	Comment: As defined by RFC 3987, which also provides an algorithm for converting IRIs to URIs. Example: https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/हृदय
- **Grouping**: [Deferred]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-37960
- **Related Page(s)**: Identifier Registry
- **Related Section(s)**: 4.6
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/identifier-registry.html
- **Reporter**: Gaurav Vaidya
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add IRIs to the list of Known Identifier Systems

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-37960

## Comments

### 1. Gaurav Vaidya - 8/25/22
Security: Public

This is related to the RDF subgroup's proposal to add IRI stems to terminology.hl7.org. You can read our detailed proposal, including security concerns, here: https://bit.ly/fhir-rdf-concept-iris-july-2022

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/14/22
Security: Public

Is the intention that we just want this as an additional type of Identifier.system or was it wanted for Coding.system as well?  The constraints would be different depending on which is desired.

### 3. Gaurav Vaidya - 11/23/22
Security: Public

Hi Lloyd!

Sorry for my tardy reply. This is intended to be used for Identifier.system only – we only need it as a type of identifier for IRI stems in our Concept IRI stem proposal (currently in development at https://jira.hl7.org/browse/UP-364). We don't have a use-case for using IRIs as a CodeSystem. If someone needed to include an IRI in such a case, they could transform the IRI into a URI as described in RFC 3987, S3.1, and then use the URI NamingSystem that is already part of THO.

Please let me know if you have any other questions for us!

### 4. Gaurav Vaidya - 12/1/22
Security: Public

Hi Lloyd!

Sorry for my tardy reply. This is intended to be used for Identifier.system only – we only need it as a type of identifier for IRI stems in our Concept IRI stem proposal (currently in development at https://jira.hl7.org/browse/UP-364). We don't have a use-case for using IRIs as a CodeSystem. If someone needed to include an IRI in such a case, they could transform the IRI into a URI as described in RFC 3987, S3.1, and then use the URI NamingSystem that is already part of THO.

Please let me know if you have any other questions for us!

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/20/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive with Modification made 2022-12-12 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/Josh Mandel: 16-0-0//(Impact: Non-substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//Will ask HTA to define a new Identifier NamingSystem for IRI with suggested metadata as indicated by the proposer.

Will ask that the metadata for this entry to make explicit that IRI values cannot be used in Identifier.system or Coding.system.  They're only being enabled for Identifier.value (where Identifier.system = urn:ietf:rfc:3987).

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/20/23
Security: Public

Re-open: Grahame Grieve/Gino Caness: 13-0-0

