# FHIR-57406: Revert the tightening of QuestionnaireResponse.questionnaire.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/20/26
- **Description**: When we made this change, the thought process was: "It's totally fine to have a QuestionnaireResponse where there is no Questionnaire instance.  You can just have the URL.  Furthermore, having a QuestionnaireResponse with no Questionnaire means that the instance has no computable semantics and there would be no ability to tell that multiple QR instances are for the same instrument"

However, it's been pointed out that there are a few useful use-cases for a QuestionnaireResponse with no Questionnaire:

	A form can be stuck in the patient's record or in an attachment or some reference and a user can open it and read it.  The 'meaning' comes from looking at the questions and answers.  The meaning doesn't need to be computable, just visible.  And "what instrument was used" may not matter or might be able to be inferred
	Extraction might still be possible, either because the items have associated codes or definition elements, or by running the form through an LLM.



Based on this, I propose we do the following:
1. Change the cardinality of QuestionnaireResponse.questionnare back to 0..1
2. Add a Best Practice constraint of `questionnaire.exists()` with text "QuestionnaireResponse.questionnaire can be populated with any valid URI, it doesn't need to be one that resolves to an actual Questionnaire resource (and there might not even be a FHIR Questionnaire instance anywhere).  Without a questionnaire element, there is no mechanism to computably know that multiple responses are for the same element, and in the absence of code and definitions, there is no way to express computable meaning.  This should only be omitted if there is no identifier for the form available in any form that would allow it to be transformed into a unique URI."
- **Grouping**: [SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57406
- **Related Artifact(s)**: QuestionnaireResponse
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We think that relaxing the constraint makes it too likely that people won't populate this when they could and should.  Instead, will change the following text in the 'comment' on QuestionnaireResponse.questionnaire from

"(e.g. conveying the title or identifier for the questionnaire)"

to

"(e.g. conveying the title or identifier for the questionnaire, or if there is no legacy identifying information available at all, a data-absent-reason extension)"
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Revert the tightening of QuestionnaireResponse.questionnaire.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57406

## Comments

_No comments in export._
