# FHIR-47334: Subscriptions - what is an active resource?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: Subscriptions are active resources; a server can only accept a subscription if it will execute the specified channel for any resources subsequently received. The subscription is no longer active once it is deleted from the server.
I understand what is intended but the wording could improve.
What is an active resource?
There is a difference between accepting a subscription and accepting the resource. A subscription is not active when it does not have the state `active`.

Suggested alternative:
Subscriptions are active resources, not just records; the state of the resource is controlled but the FHIR server and not the client. A server will only activate Subscriptions (set the status to active and send notifications) if it supports the referred to SubscriptionTopic and the requested channel. The subscription is not active when the Subscription.status field is not set to active or when the Subscription is deleted from the server.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47334
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Subscriptions - what is an active resource?

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47334

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

