# FHIR-42762: Create search parameter for workflow-EpisodeOfCare (and get it added to all event resource search param pages)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Should we consider a way to incorporate search parameters for extensions into the main resource page?  And maybe extensions too?

With the goal of reducing breaking changes after R6, it seems like we'll likely be representing more and more content as extensions, to the extent where we may want to render some standard extensions in the main resource view, when those extensions represent data in the the "80%" based on the owning WG's judgement.  

It seems like providing a way for WGs to promote standard extensions and their associated search parameters into the "main" view might be very valuable.  I.e., FHIR-I would provide a way to do that, and then OO could use that feature to include the workflow-EpisodeOfCare parameter in their main Observation search parameter listing (or not, as the OO WG decides).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/25/23
- **Created**: 9/14/23
- **Description**: Assuming that FHIR-42761 will be rejected, we should at least create a search parameter for workflow-EpisodeOfCare and get it added to all of the Event resource search parameter pages.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42762
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Event Pattern
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Create search parameter for workflow-EpisodeOfCare (and get it added to all event resource search param pages)

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42762

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 9/25/23
Security: Public

Should we consider a way to incorporate search parameters for extensions into the main resource page?  And maybe extensions too?

With the goal of reducing breaking changes after R6, it seems like we'll likely be representing more and more content as extensions, to the extent where we may want to render some standard extensions in the main resource view, when those extensions represent data in the the "80%" based on the owning WG's judgement.  

It seems like providing a way for WGs to promote standard extensions and their associated search parameters into the "main" view might be very valuable.  I.e., FHIR-I would provide a way to do that, and then OO could use that feature to include the workflow-EpisodeOfCare parameter in their main Observation search parameter listing (or not, as the OO WG decides).

