# FHIR-42961: Update the cardinarly if the bundler signature to to have an upper bound

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Corey Spears
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Corey Spears to start Zulip thread and post link in comments here.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/15/24
- **Created**: 10/17/23
- **Description**: The bundle currently has signature cardinality of 0...1, this is limiting in that only one party may sign a document for one purpose. Multiple parties may want to sign the same bundle for different purposes (e.g. Proof of Origin, Proof of Receipt etc.). I would suggest changing the cardinality to 0...*.
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42961
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/bundle.html
- **Reporter**: Jerry Goodnough
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will define a new extension called "AdditionalSignature" of type 0..* signature, context Bundle

Short: More signatures

Definition: Additional signatures that apply to the Bundle content (i.e. where a single Bundle.signature is not sufficient)

Comment: There is no distinction in meaning between the signature repetition that appears in Bundle.signature vs. those that are sent in this extension.  Systems and profiles SHALL NOT ascribe different meaning to signatures sent in Bundle.signature vs. here.

Requirements:  This is handled as a separate element rather than increasing the cardinality for Bundle.signature for backward compatibility reasons.  If this element becomes widely used, we'll evaluate migrating the extension to Bundle.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Update the cardinarly if the bundler signature to to have an upper bound
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42961

## Comments

### 1. Corey Spears - 4/15/24
Security: Public

Corey Spears to start Zulip thread and post link in comments here.

### 2. Corey Spears - 4/16/24
Security: Public

Zulip thread posted here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Signatures.20in.20Bundle.20for.20multiple.20purposes

### 3. John Moehrke - 4/16/24
Security: Public

I would agree that if there are multiple signature types needed (use-case analysis) then the cardinality should be 0..*.

