# FHIR-50598: Change _outputFormat handling so that behavior is less dependent on server support

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Josh, we have been discussing the issue and would like feedback from you.  To summarize since _outputFormat is optional in bulk export, clients that have integrated and use implicit ndjson will break if the server adds support for generic async pattern.

Daniel Gottlieb, would ask for your thoughts as well.

Thanks!
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/12/25
- **Created**: 5/1/25
- **Description**: The behavior of _outputFormat in terms of distinguishing Async Bulk from Async Interaction seems strange in practice.

According to https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/async-bulk.html :

	if a server only supports Async Bulk, _outputFormat is totally optional. Omitting it (or providing it) triggers Async Bulk, since _outputFormat "defaults" to application/fhir+ndjson
	if a server supports both Async Bulk and Async Interaction, _outputFormat is still optional. However, omitting it now triggers Async Interaction instead; its "default" value is now functionally different



This is especially awkward for a server that starts with only supporting Async Bulk. In that case, a client may be triggering an Async Bulk request while omitting the _outputFormat parameter. Then, if the server later adds support for Async Interaction, that client's request will totally change functionally, due to an unrelated enhancement from the server.

On the other hand, a client has no way to force that Async Interaction occurs over Async Bulk, when interacting with servers more generically. They must omit _outputFormat to trigger Async Interaction, but for some servers, omitting this parameter will actually trigger Async Bulk, without any immediate error or warning.

I suggest:

	providing a way to unambiguously request the Async Interaction pattern over the Async Bulk pattern. For example, defining _outputFormat values for this pattern.
	Making the behavior for when _outputFormat is omitted be consistent regardless of a server's current capabilities.
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50598
- **Related Page(s)**: Asynchronous API (async)
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.2.6.1.2, 3.2.6.2.2
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/async-bulk.html
- **Reporter**: James Jahns
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Change _outputFormat handling so that behavior is less dependent on server support
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50598

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 5/12/25
Security: Public

Josh, we have been discussing the issue and would like feedback from you.  To summarize since _outputFormat is optional in bulk export, clients that have integrated and use implicit ndjson will break if the server adds support for generic async pattern.

Daniel Gottlieb, would ask for your thoughts as well.

Thanks!

### 2. Gino Canessa - 6/18/25
Security: Public

The text here is unclear, but the intention of the authors is as follows:


	An operation is generally only expected to use one style of async, which should be identified while defining it (currently via narrative).
	The text around _outputFormat as disambiguation is only written in one direction and does not state any implication in the other.  It was only intended as an additional method of disambiguation but appears to be more problematic than it is worth.  The text should be removed.



For discussion:

	should we define an extension for OperationDefinition to identify async expectations (e.g., bulk-data vs. async-interaction).

