# FHIR-44493: Discuss use of contained example instances

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Git master 2d3654b2f1
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/6/25
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Clarify if the ExampleScenario itself convey the instances using the contained element. I think it can, unless the instances themselves contain contained elements.

(Comment 26 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44493
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ExampleScenario
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related Section(s)**: 12.34
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will add a new section in the notes of the resource that says:

Contained

There are two notions of 'contained' in this resource - the generic 'contained' element inherited from DomainResource that allows other resources to be nested inside this ExampleScenario (e.g. Provenance, structureProfiles, or instance or instance.version content).  There's also a containedInstance element on ExampleScenario.instance.  This latter element reflects the nesting of content within the data shared as part of a scenario.  For example, highlighting that an instance initially received on its own (e.g. an Observation) is later conveyed in a Bundle (as a document, message or search response), or potentially a resource that was nested as a 'contained' resource in one instance is available in non-contained form or contained inside a different resource in a separate instance.

In short, 'ExampleScenario.contained' is for nesting resources inside the ExampleScenario.  ExampleScenario.instance.containedInstance reflects the nesting of data being transmitted by an ExampleScenario operation as part of the scenario.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Discuss use of contained example instances
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44493

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Git master 2d3654b2f1

