# FHIR-46851: _sort for Date is underdefined

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Gino to think about this (e.g. what timezone gets assumed)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/9/24
- **Created**: 8/30/24
- **Description**: The _sort section provides guidance on sorting dates. It states that if the date is not an instance (e.g. Period), the result is server-defined.
What is the expected search behavior in the case the dates are a mix of Instance date, datetime and instant values (e.g. when searching on Observation-date.
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46851
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.2.1.7.1
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/search.html#_sort
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: _sort for Date is underdefined

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46851

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/9/24
Security: Public

Gino to think about this (e.g. what timezone gets assumed)

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 9/11/24
Security: Public

Gino Canessa, some further thoughts on this topic.

Any date/datetime value is a representation of a period. A value of 2010-08 indicates a period between 2010-08-01T00:00:00 and 2010-08-01-31T23:59:59. A similar approach could also be taken for day, hour, minute and second.

Although the specification indicates an exception for sorting on periods (is server defined), such exception would also apply to sorting DataTime instances where some include seconds and others do not. 

Search is normative so I do not think we should introduce mandatory guidance. We could consider  adding the following algorithm as a suggestion:

	when sorting in ascending order, the start of the period should be used.
	when sorting in descending order, the end.



This will place the instance always as the first entry in its virtual period.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/10/25
Security: Public

Bas will chat with Gino and start a public conversation on Zulip.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Gino Canessa will start the thread

### 5. Gino Canessa - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Started thread: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/FHIR-46851.20.3A.20Sort.20date.20recommendation

