# FHIR-41458: Clarify return of hasValue()

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussed in FHIR-I; still need to understand where hasValue is used in published constraints or other expressions (and with what expectations) before pinning down the definitions.

&#8212;

Bas: If a collection has a single value, I'd expect true/false;  empty collection would return empty; collection with multiple elements would... throw an error in some implementations?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/27/23
- **Created**: 6/20/23
- **Description**: The current documentation of hasValue() at http://hl7.org/fhir/fhirpath.html#functions makes it sound as though the function only returns either true or empty.  However, Grahame says the intention was for it to return false also.

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179266-fhirpath/topic/hasValue
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41458
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/fhirpath.html#functions
- **Reporter**: Paul Lynch
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "Returns true if the input collection contains a single value which is a FHIR primitive, and it has a primitive value (e.g. as opposed to not having a value and just having extensions). Otherwise, the return value is empty."

to

"If the input collection contains a single value which is a FHIR primitive, then will return true if the single value is a primitive value (e.g. as opposed to not having a value and just having extensions) and false if not. If the input collection isn't a single FHIR primitive, the return value is empty."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify return of hasValue()
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41458

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 11/27/23
Security: Public

Discussed in FHIR-I; still need to understand where hasValue is used in published constraints or other expressions (and with what expectations) before pinning down the definitions.

&#8212;

Bas: If a collection has a single value, I'd expect true/false;  empty collection would return empty; collection with multiple elements would... throw an error in some implementations?

