# FHIR-51024: TestScript enhancement – conditional asserts

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Add key as id, keep label as string
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/16/25
- **Created**: 6/3/25
- **Description**: Based on FHIR-37824, this proposed enhancement to the TestScript resource will provide the ability for conditional evaluation of an action.assert based on the outcome (pass or fail) of one or more previously evaluated asserts.

The existing action.assert.label data type will be updated from “string” to “id” reflecting the updated usage.

A new action.assert sub-element evaluateBasedOn will be defined as a repeating element with a data type of id. All instance values of evaluateBasedOn will reference previously defined action.assert.label values. The Test Engine behavior will be updated to process all evaluateBasedOn instance values to determine whether the current action.assert will be evaluated by ANDing all of the referenced previously executed action.assert instances. If no evaluateBasedOn instances are defined, the current action.assert will be evaluated normally. If all previously executed action.assert instance outcomes are pass or pass with warning, then the current action.assert SHALL be evaluated. If any one of the previously executed action.assert instance outcomes are fail, then the current action.assert SHALL NOT be evaluated and the Test Engine will set the current action.assert outcome as “skipped”. If “skipped”, the Test Engine SHOULD also provide information details describing which of the previously executed action.assert instance outcomes caused the “skipped” outcome for the current action.assert.

Here is the proposed TestScript change to TestScript.setup.action.assert:


- action
  - assert
    |- label              0..1  id  Tracking/logging assertion label
    |- evaluateBasedOn    0..*  id  Zero or more assert.label references to conditionally determine if this assert will be evaluated
    |  ...
- **Grouping**: [Applied]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51024
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestScript
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/testscript.html
- **Reporter**: Richard Ettema
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Accept the revised proposal as per Richard's comment
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: TestScript enhancement – conditional asserts
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51024

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Add key as id, keep label as string

### 2. Richard Ettema - 6/20/25
Security: Public

&#91;~rettema&#93; added a comment - Just now
Here is the updated proposed TestScript change to TestScript.setup.action.assert:


- action
  - assert
    |- label              0..1  string  Tracking/logging assertion label
    |- key                0..1  id      Key that identifies this assert
    |- evaluateBasedOn    0..*  id      Zero or more assert.key references to conditionally determine if this assert will be evaluated
    |  ...

### 3. Richard Ettema - 6/23/25
Security: Public

Screen shot from local build with updated proposal:

### 4. Richard Ettema - 6/24/25
Security: Public

PR created - https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3508

Note - Pipeline build for PR is currently failing due to kindling issue. Potential fix has been submitted in PR https://github.com/HL7/kindling/pull/190

### 5. Richard Ettema - 6/30/25
Security: Public

PR approved and merged

