# FHIR-41228: Reference and CodeableReference with empty targets

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Can you indicate your intention of how referencing different types of resources would be interpreted together?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/11/23
- **Created**: 5/7/23
- **Description**: All elements in TestPlan where Reference or CodeableReference is the datatype the targets are not specified, it is empty (expected Any or a list of possible resource targets).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41228
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestPlan
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/testplan.html
- **Reporter**: Oliver Egger
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Reference and CodeableReference with empty targets
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41228

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/11/23
Security: Public

Can you indicate your intention of how referencing different types of resources would be interpreted together?

### 2. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 7/8/24
Security: Public

The intent of TestPlan.scope is the same as TestScript.scope, hence mking it (any). We can constrain it to canonical resources (ActorDefinition is a must, as it is what I'd actually start using TestPlan for).

Since Scope is intended to handle traceability, having multiple would be used for establishing relationship, so my current guess would be that multiple references imply a union? I don't know if it is intended to mean "everything" that actor A does - is that relevant? If we think so, we should probably have a separation between scope and "target"

### 3. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 9/30/24
Security: Public

The intent of TestPlan.scope is the same as TestScript.scope, hence making it (any). We can constrain it to canonical resources (ActorDefinition (possibly CapabilityStatement?) is a must, as it is what I'd actually start using TestPlan for).

Since Scope is intended to handle traceability, having multiple would be used for establishing relationship, so my current guess would be that multiple references imply a union? I don't know if it is intended to mean "everything" that actor A does - is that relevant? If we think so, we should probably have a separation between scope and "target"

### 4. Richard Ettema - 2/26/25
Security: Public

PR https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3322

