# FHIR-51218: Add concepts to the Identifier-type value set http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/identifier-type

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: For Referral ID or Order ID, we see no reason to add more specific codes.  Doing so would be breaking as it would mean that systems could no longer count on 'placer identifier' as covering all order types.  Systems are free to send Referral ID or Order ID in addition to Placer ID if they wish, though there aren't even standard codes for these in v2.

For Encounter ID, when would this identifier not be on Encounter, and therefore not be redundant?  In general, we only want to have type code where they're needed to disambiguate amongst multiple types of identifiers that could appear on the same element.

We are comfortable adding Study Instance UID as there's a use-case for sending this in DocumentReference.event.  Bas van den Heuvel will check with II about their preferred code, given there's no code for this in the v2 code system.  Will hold off reconciling until we have a response on our concerns for the previous codes.
- **Assignee**: Lisa R. Nelson
- **Comments**: 5/11/26
- **Created**: 6/24/25
- **Description**: Add concepts to the Identifier-type value set http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/identifier-type.

See UTG-708 for similar request to add these concepts to the underlying Code System:

Referral ID (as more specific than Placer identifier)
Order ID (as more specific than Placer identifier)
Study Instance UID
Encounter ID
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51218
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ServiceRequest
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Reporter**: Lisa R. Nelson
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Add concepts to the Identifier-type value set http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/identifier-type
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51218

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/11/26
Security: Public

For Referral ID or Order ID, we see no reason to add more specific codes.  Doing so would be breaking as it would mean that systems could no longer count on 'placer identifier' as covering all order types.  Systems are free to send Referral ID or Order ID in addition to Placer ID if they wish, though there aren't even standard codes for these in v2.

For Encounter ID, when would this identifier not be on Encounter, and therefore not be redundant?  In general, we only want to have type code where they're needed to disambiguate amongst multiple types of identifiers that could appear on the same element.

We are comfortable adding Study Instance UID as there's a use-case for sending this in DocumentReference.event.  Bas van den Heuvel will check with II about their preferred code, given there's no code for this in the v2 code system.  Will hold off reconciling until we have a response on our concerns for the previous codes.

