# FHIR-51091: ElementDefinition contexts table is incomplete

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Please draft the additions to the table for root element and following elements of Logical Models.

Please review the Path table in the same section to see if there are additional changes needed there.

Thank you!
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/21/25
- **Created**: 6/13/25
- **Description**: This table covers 2 situations (with variant rules for first element and second element): Type definition and Constraint definition.

The code is presuming those correspond to "any type where kind = 'specialization'" and "any type where kind = 'constraint'"

However, I don't think that was our intention.  We intended type definition to apply for kind=primitive type, complex type, and resource.  But I'm pretty sure we didn't intend this to apply for logical models.

As enforced at the moment, the rule says we can't have minValue&#91;x&#93;, maxValue&#91;x&#93;, or maxLength when defining a logical model.  However, that doesn't make sense.  We do want that prohibition for resources and complex types because those are generic structures that shouldn't have such constraints.  However, it's completely reasonable to have these things for logical models which might already be quite context-specific.  And in practice we have these things on simple-types too.  We use invariants to define them, but really things like id, string, etc. have maxLengths and our various integer types have minimum and maximum values.

The question is whether we can get away with this correction given that the page is already normative...
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51091
- **Related Page(s)**: ElementDefinition
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/elementdefinition.html#interpretation
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: # Ditch expected and Not Expected and replace with 'required' and 'prohibited', respectiely
 ## NOTE: This is a theoretically breaking change and needs to go through the review process to ensure we're not actually breaking anyone.  @Grahame will check existing models in the ecosystem and we'll also ask existing toolsmiths how their code handles these situations
 ## We'll need to remove the bullet as well
 # In Type definition, following elements, mark 'slicing' as prohibited
 # Will rename "{*}Type definition, following elements{*}" to "{*}FHIR Type definition, following elements{*}" and add a new column for "{*}Logical Type definition, following elements{*}"
 # Column contents will be the same except as specified:
 ## short/definition: required-> recommended
 ## fixed, pattern, minValue, maxValue, maxLength: prohibited -> optional
 ## isSummary: leave as optional, but add footnote saying "The definition of isSummary is tied to its use in RESTful search and therefore is not technically relevant for logical models, however its use is not prohibited because of the possibility that the concept might still have meaning in some logical model contexts."

NOTE:
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: ElementDefinition contexts table is incomplete
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51091

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 7/21/25
Security: Public

Please draft the additions to the table for root element and following elements of Logical Models.

Please review the Path table in the same section to see if there are additional changes needed there.

Thank you!

