# FHIR-50158: OperationDefinition needs additional bindings

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Grahame will gather more data about how IGs are managing with profiling operations and will bring this back in June.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/14/25
- **Created**: 4/1/25
- **Description**: (Note that ElementDefinition is missing from the list of artifacts for R6 right now)

OperationDefinition.parameter currently has an element for binding, but does not include any additional bindings in the way that ElementDefinition does.

Propose adding OperationDefinition.parameter.binding.additional, matching the structure and content of ElementDefinition.binding.additional.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50158
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: OperationDefinition needs additional bindings

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50158

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Grahame will gather more data about how IGs are managing with profiling operations and will bring this back in June.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 6/11/25
Security: Public

well, many IGs are using inputProfile and outputProfile as well as defining the parameters for similar kinds of constraints. is that enough?

### 3. Grahame Grieve - 6/11/25
Security: Public

well, many IGs are using inputProfile and outputProfile as well as defining the parameters for similar kinds of constraints. is that enough?

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/11/25
Security: Public

It's less than ideal, as unlike many of the things we put in the profiles, the base binding is visible.  To see one and not see all is problematic.

(I personally think we made a huge mistake in not just using profile for everything, as it's a pain to author when you can't do everything in one place.)

### 5. Josh Mandel - 11/10/25
Security: Public

From discussion in FHIR-I: The goal of the parameters here is to nail down the wire format rather than to express the full details and all constraints; profiles can be used when more detail is needed.

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/17/25
Security: Public

The problem is that the rendering of the Operation parameters is misleading because essential constraints aren't visible.  Someone looking only at the parameters will miss stuff - which essentially means that showing anything other than the parameter names is dangerous.

