# FHIR-46548: Clarify the context of fhirpath expressions used in the fhir mapping language page.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 8/5/24
- **Description**: There are 3 fhirpath expressions that can be used within a source rule of a fhirpath map:

where, check and log.

It should be clarified that these should be evaluated one after the other, and the input context would be the output of the evaluation of the preceding stages.

Most importantly, the variables available will include the alias for the context.element if one is provided.

The test "evaluated to boolean on the context" should be clarified to indicate that this is the "context element" not just "context" - as there is a property declared called context, and that would not be sufficient for many expressions.

The log should also be clarified that it should be evaluated for each entry that will be used after the where/checks are performed - what is going into the map. Indicating that it will be logging content that passed that rule, not content that was considered.

Further discussion is in Zulip here:

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/379173-FHIR-Mapping-Language/topic/where.20clause
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46548
- **Related Page(s)**: Mapping Language
- **Related Section(s)**: 7.8.0.8.1 Source Content
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/mapping-language.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify the context of fhirpath expressions used in the fhir mapping language page.

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46548

## Comments

_No comments in export._
