# FHIR-42725: TestPlan.testCase need "id", and "description"

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Similar use-case to pointing to requirements by key.  Once we figure out the '#' thing, maybe a similar approach?  Richard to explore.
- **Assignee**: Richard Ettema
- **Comments**: 4/1/24
- **Created**: 9/11/23
- **Description**: TestPlan.testCase need an id to identify the test case, and a description to describe what this test case is
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42725
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestPlan
- **Reporter**: Yunwei Wang
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: TestPlan.testCase need "id", and "description"
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42725

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/1/24
Security: Public

Similar use-case to pointing to requirements by key.  Once we figure out the '#' thing, maybe a similar approach?  Richard to explore.

### 2. Richard Ettema - 4/1/24
Security: Public

I propose the following addition to the TestPlan.testCase:

+ testCase
|- testCaseId         1..1  id
|- description        0..1  markdown

where, "testCaseId" can be used as the value that identifies the specific "testCase" when used in concert with the TestPlan canonical url as a separate element. For example, the structure that would reference the TestPlan and the specific testCase would be:

|- testPlan         0..1  Canonical(TestPlan)
|- testCaseId       0..1  id

An invariant would be needed to require the testCaseId when the testPlan value is populated, or the testPlan and testCaseId elements could have their cardinalities set to "1..1".

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/2/24
Security: Public

In general we don't repeat the name of the parent in the child.  Also, there's already an 'id' element on testCase.  Maybe testCase.key?

### 4. Richard Ettema - 4/2/24
Security: Public

Lloyd,

Thanks. So, here is the updated proposal:

+ TestPlan
|+ testCase
 |- key          1..1  id
 |- description  1..1  markdown

where the referencing structure would be:

 |- testPlan        0..1  Canonical(TestPlan)
 |- testCaseKey     0..1  id

### 5. Yunwei Wang - 4/2/24
Security: Public

I suggest to change desciption cardinality to 0..1 to give more flexibility

### 6. Richard Ettema - 4/2/24
Security: Public

I generated a local FHIR spec build with the proposed updates. Here's a screen shot:

### 7. Richard Ettema - 4/16/24
Security: Public

PR with TestPlan updates - https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3070

