# FHIR-48363: Invalid search parameters on Bundle

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Rick Geimer
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Whatever solution we propose should also support chaining into contained resources per the following section of the spec:
https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#_containedType
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/27/24
- **Created**: 9/23/24
- **Description**: The composition and message search parameters on Bundle are not valid.

They are each defined as reference type, but the FHIRPath expressions return resources and not references.

The ability to target a Resource via a reference search type is not defined on the search page.  Interactions with the various input formats, modifiers, etc., would need to be defined.  Additionally, the definitions around chaining in search would need to be updated to allow for traversal through resource types.

It might also be possible to update the FHIRPath expressions, but most paths in that direction I believe also require additional definitions (e.g., creating a new reference object based on the resource or pointing the expression at Bundle.entry.fullUrl).

We could also change the search parameters to special search type (as they require custom code) or add an extension to indicate this 'special' behavior.
- **Grouping**: [WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48363
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: # Define a "resource" type of search parameter.
 # Document that it is intended to search against directly-embedded resources such as the Composition (entry[0] in a Document-type bundle) or the MessageHeader (entry[0] in a Message-type bundle)
 # Document that this is intended for enabling chaining; message=value wouldn't have direct semantics but message.x=y would have chaining semantics
 # Document that in FHIR R5 and earlier, these were incorrectly using a "reference" type, and indicate that the intent was to treat embedded resources.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Invalid search parameters on Bundle
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48363

## Comments

### 1. Rick Geimer - 9/27/24
Security: Public

Whatever solution we propose should also support chaining into contained resources per the following section of the spec:
https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#_containedType

### 2. Gino Canessa - 7/8/25
Security: Public

Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442

