# FHIR-44491: Better support for non-FHIR content

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Don't really understand what you mean.  When we render a Binary, we show the content if we can.  The only thing a Binary has are mime types, id, and possibly .meta information.  We don't render the .meta information of any other resource, and the mime type is somewhat obvious in the rendering (if we're able to recognize the mime type and render it).  Readers who care about the details are free to look at the JSON/XML/RDF.  Can you explain what you're looking for here?
	We use Reference rather than url because what it points to must be a resource we can include in an IG package (or that can be found in some other IG package).  The Reference can point to a Binary, which means it can point to any possible type of shareable content.



Ron G. Parker, please explain your desires for #1.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/12/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: 1. How do you do an example of a Binary resource in a way that shows the the Binary resource wrapper? (Binary in a Binary?)
2. Why not allow a url to any arbitrary endpoint?


Existing Wording:
 not conveying FHIR data or not using the same version of FHIR as this ExampleScenario instance, the reference must be to a Binary.

(Comment 24 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Grouping**: [Extension-pack]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44491
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ExampleScenario
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related Section(s)**: 12.34.7
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: All examples referenced by ExampleScenario *must* be FHIR resources because that's the only type of content that can be packaged in an IG and published.  It's fine for those FHIR resources to be Binaries (which allows any kind of arbitrary content) and there are extensions that allow communicating to the publisher that a Binary might actually be an instance of a logical model.

At present, ExampleScenario doesn't make any assertions about how FHIR instances are sent over the wire (XML, JSON, TTL, ND-JSON, or in the case of Binaries, potentially raw data).  We agree that in some scenarios this might be relevant.  (Typically Binaries will be shared as raw data, not as XML or JSON, for example.)  We will define a new extension "ExampleScenario-exchange-syntax" of type 0..* code with a binding to mime type and a context of ExampleScenario.step.operation.request and ExampleScenario.step.operation.response.

Short: Mime format of exchange

Definition: "A code describing the syntax in which the data is serialized for this exchange."

Comment: "If multiple codes are specified, then any of the listed syntaxes are permitted.  If not specified, any syntax is allowed or the syntax is not considered relevant to the scenario."

 

Will let Elliot look at this before we vote.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Better support for non-FHIR content
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44491

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/12/24
Security: Public

Don't really understand what you mean.  When we render a Binary, we show the content if we can.  The only thing a Binary has are mime types, id, and possibly .meta information.  We don't render the .meta information of any other resource, and the mime type is somewhat obvious in the rendering (if we're able to recognize the mime type and render it).  Readers who care about the details are free to look at the JSON/XML/RDF.  Can you explain what you're looking for here?
	We use Reference rather than url because what it points to must be a resource we can include in an IG package (or that can be found in some other IG package).  The Reference can point to a Binary, which means it can point to any possible type of shareable content.



Ron G. Parker, please explain your desires for #1.

### 2. Elliot Silver - 2/12/24
Security: Public

The question is about example responses which are of type Binary, rather than example resources conveyed in a Binary. For example, if the content is a Binary of a JPEG, rather than an example JPEG. Does it become double wrapped (JPEG in Binary in Binary)?

Regarding 2, “must be a resource we can include in an IG package”:  Where is that stated/implied? Why is that necessary? Is that bloating the IG package unnecessarily?

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/12/24
Security: Public

A binary resource is just a Binary instance.  No double-wrapping.  In your source, you'd just have the raw JPEG file.  In the package, you'd have a Binary instance with the base64-encoded JPEG.

