# FHIR-54535: DocumentReference search using _content

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Originally I had hoped for such a thing, but got push back that "not all fhir servers will be able to do this". Thus I expected the feature would need to be in an operation.

IHE is working on a feature for MHD to support full-text search. I don't know how they are approaching this as I am not part of IHE. Oliver Egger is current co-chair and may have some insight.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/13/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: The _content search parameter shall search across the DocumentReference.content.attachment.data, and DocumentReference.content.attachment.url.




When searching in Attachement.data, does this mean that the search is in the Base64 content or in the derialized content? Does it search in the raw data or does it need to understand the content as well (I hope not)?

Related to searching on the url, does this mean they search for text in the url or in the content of the URL? I assume the the server is not required to support searching in the content pointed to be the URL. That would be very expensive. Please clarify.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54535
- **Related Artifact(s)**: DocumentReference
- **Related Section(s)**: 10.2.5
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: DocumentReference search using _content
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54535

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 5/13/26
Security: Public

Originally I had hoped for such a thing, but got push back that "not all fhir servers will be able to do this". Thus I expected the feature would need to be in an operation.

IHE is working on a feature for MHD to support full-text search. I don't know how they are approaching this as I am not part of IHE. Oliver Egger is current co-chair and may have some insight.

### 2. Oliver Egger - 5/13/26
Security: Public

The full-text search option IHE ITI has worked on and John mentioned is going for public comment, currently you can see it here:
https://build.fhir.org/ig/IHE/ITI.MHD/branches/Full-Text-Search/ITI-67.html#236741211-full-text-search-option

&gt;If the Full-Text Search Option is supported, the Document Consumer must be able to make use of the _content parameter that specifies terms or phrases that are used to search document content in the documents managed by the Document Responder.

and it provides further guidance how it should be used. e.g. searching in content of the documents itself (not the base64 content)

