# FHIR-50934: Signatures should allow exclusion of section.text in Compositions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This deals more with signature than Composition
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/13/25
- **Created**: 5/20/25
- **Description**: The "Canonical JSON" section defines canonicalization URIs that can be used to specify what elements are covered by a signature.

There is one cannonical that indicates the Narrative is not included:



http://hl7.org/fhir/canonicalization/json#data
The narrative (Resource.text) is omitted prior to signing (note the deletion is at Resource.text, not Resource.text.div)





What does this mean when signing Composition resources? Does this mean that the Narrative stored in section.text is excluded as well? If so, please specify this on the Composition and JSON signature page. If not, please add this functionality (included in the indicated cannonical or as a separate one).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50934
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Composition
- **Related Page(s)**: JSON

Signatures
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/datatypes.html#Signature
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: 1. Will revamp the canonicalization definitions as follows:

data: recursively omits all elements of type Narrative (e.g. {{Resource.text}} {{{}Composition.section.text{}}}, etc.) prior to signing (note this removes the whole narrative element, not just the {{div}} element)

static: recursively omits all elements of type Narrative (as per 'data') above as well as all occurrences of {{{}Resource.meta{}}}.  This makes the signature robust as the content is moved from server to server, or workflow and access tags are added or removed. Note that workflow and security tags may contain information important to the handling of the resource, so meta elements should be protected from tampering by other means if the resource is signed with this canonicalization.

narrative: Recursively omits all elements other than {{Resource.id}} and elements with type Narrative.  I.e. the only content retained is resource identity and narrative.  NOTE: all internal references to bundle entries are removed, which may make narrative 

document - leave as is, but correct spelling of 'prior'

 

2.Will also add the following paragraphs:

"When excluding elements from signature, the elements on the path to reach the element must be included.  For example, if performing a 'narrative' canonicalization of a Bundle with a composition, if the Narrative elements Composition.text or Composition.section.text exist, then the Bundle.entry, .resource and Composition.text nodes needed to reach those elements would be retained.  The signed content may not be sufficient to constitute a 'valid' instance, but this is ok because the signature is focused only on what is attested to.

Recursion means that the process applies to all nested resources such as contained resources, Bundle entries, nested content in Parameters, etc."

3. Will add a note to implementers that says "These canonicalization algorithms have been changed in a way that may be breaking for some implementations.  If real-world implementations would be negatively impacted by these changes, let us know and we will deprecate the old canonicalization algorithms and define new ones."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Signatures should allow exclusion of section.text in Compositions
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50934

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/13/25
Security: Public

This deals more with signature than Composition

### 2. John Moehrke - 6/14/25
Security: Public

This is canonicalization, isn't that ITS responsibility?

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/16/25
Security: Public

The existing canonicalization algorithm does not exclude section.text.  (The algorithm is quite clear what it does exclude.)  It's normative and can't be changed.

A new algorithm that does exclude section.text could be defined.  Would need evidence of broad interest in such an algorithm.  It would go to ITS for approval, as they're responsible for these.

### 4. Gino Canessa - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Assigned as requested.

### 5. John Moehrke - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Likely needed to support human language translation.

Would have been nice that the existing one covered this, but I agree with Lloyd that it clearly did not specify it so it does not cover this.

I would support new canonical, with a very well written exclusion.

### 6. Bas van den Heuvel - 11/27/25
Security: Public

This relates to be able to translate the section.text without breaking the signatures. 

But translation of composition is broader topic that requires more thought. Changing this so close to the R6 ballot is not wise or required. I prefer that we defer resolution of this ticket to after the R6 ballot.

