# FHIR-44811: Move the tx-issue-type code system to core or THO

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Rob McClure
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Based upon the Zulip thread and interest in using compositional grammar, tx-issue-type should be in THO so it is easier to view and base implementation upon.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/27/24
- **Created**: 2/24/24
- **Description**: When validating a code, both tx.fhir.org and ontoserver return a list of issues that were found with the code. E.g. not found in the code system, not found in the value set, invalid display, etc. Each of these issues needs a 'type' so that the issue can be correctly handled in the client code - .e.g the validator will downgrade some kind of errors to warnings based on the binding strength or other considerations. 

The test cases for compliant terminology servers therefore require these issues to have a type taken from a code system defined in the tools IG: https://build.fhir.org/ig/FHIR/fhir-tools-ig/CodeSystem-tx-issue-type.html

 

Given its importance, we should consider moving this code system to either the core FHIR specification or THO. This will be good for handling tasks like FHIR-44810 that ak for an example of an issue that uses this code system
- **Grouping**: [R6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44811
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Move the tx-issue-type code system to core or THO

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44811

## Comments

### 1. Rob McClure - 2/27/24
Security: Public

Based upon the Zulip thread and interest in using compositional grammar, tx-issue-type should be in THO so it is easier to view and base implementation upon.

### 2. Carmela A. Couderc - 4/8/24
Security: Public

Jessica Bota I sense this could be morphed into a UTG ticket - is there any reason we have to vote on this in TI?

### 3. Jessica Bota - 4/10/24
Security: Public

Yes, makes sense to add to THO via a UTG ticket. We don't need to vote on it, but FHIR-I should as the Sponsoring WG. However, since it is terminology related, it makes sense for us to review it.

### 4. Carmela A. Couderc - 4/22/24
Security: Public

Discussed on the 2024-04-22 TI tracker call. 

Agree that this code system and value set should be in THO.

### 5. Carmela A. Couderc - 4/22/24
Security: Public

Will reassign ticket to FHIR-I to do the following:

Create a UP ticket with the information necessary to create a new code system and value set in THO.

Update the FHIR tools IG to use the new url for the code system &amp; value set.

### 6. Carmela A. Couderc - 4/22/24
Security: Public

The IG is not in the drop down list to select for the specification context.

