# FHIR-50529: TestScript constraints tst-5, tst-6, tst-18 are confusing and possibly wrong

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Asked to review the expressions and will come back with recommendations.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/30/25
- **Created**: 4/30/25
- **Description**: TestScript constraints tst-5, tst-6, and tst-18 all have identical expressions, just in different locations.

This expression is quite confusing, and probably also logically incorrect.

While these issues could be resolved as a technical correction, changing the actual structure of assert could be a cleaner option. For example, adding a BackboneElement that includes only the fields which there's meant to be up to one of could allow for a clearer expression.
 

Anyway:

1. The constraint is multiple expressions combined with or. This part of the expression is too easy to satisfy, since it doesn't consider many other fields, making the expression as a whole return true:

((expression.count() + minimumId.count() &lt;=2) or (expression.count() + validateProfileId.count() &lt;=2)) and (expression.count() + path.count() &lt;=1) and (minimumId.count() + validateProfileId.count() &lt;=1))

For example, populating expression, resource, requestMethod, and headerField all at once satisfies the above, making this constraint pass, which contradicts the description of this constraint.

See attached file for an example TestScript that, I assume, should fail tst-6, but does not.

2. This part of the expression appears redundant; it is always true given the max cardinality of these fields
((expression.count() + minimumId.count() &lt;=2) or (expression.count() + validateProfileId.count() &lt;=2))

Same with this part:
((path.count() + minimumId.count() &lt;=2) or (path.count() + validateProfileId.count() &lt;=2))
- **Grouping**: [Applied]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50529
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestScript
- **Related Section(s)**: 7.4.5.2
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/testscript.html#invs
- **Reporter**: James Jahns
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The existing expression for tst-5, tst-6 and tst-18 needs to be broken into 2 separate constraints that each can focus on the intended evaluations.

1. The tst-5, tst-6 and tst-18 constraint expression will be restricted to the check for any overlapping assertion definitions and its description updated as follows. (The description of each constraint will refer to the TestScript setup, test and common assert elements respectively.)

Description: "A setup action assert SHALL define a singular assertion function and prevent overlapping assertion functionality."

Expression: 

extension.exists() or (compareToSourceId.count() + contentType.count() + expression.count() + headerField.count() + minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + path.count() + requestMethod.count() + requestURL.count() + resource.count() + responseCode.count() + response.count() + validateProfileId.count() <= 1)
 

2. New constraints for the TestScript setup, test and common assert elements will be defined to handle the condition where the assert operator and value elements must be restricted from use with either of the minimumId, navigationLinks and validateProfileId elements.

Description: "A setup action assert SHALL not allow the use of operator and value with minimumId, navigationLinks or validateProfileId."

Expression: 

extension.exists() or (minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + validateProfileId.count() = 0) or (minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + validateProfileId.count() = 1 and operator.count() + value.count() = 0)
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: TestScript constraints tst-5, tst-6, tst-18 are confusing and possibly wrong
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50529

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 6/30/25
Security: Public

Asked to review the expressions and will come back with recommendations.

### 2. Richard Ettema - 7/29/25
Security: Public

Analysis

My analysis of the fhirpath expression for tst-5, tst-6 and tst-18 agrees with the assessment from James. The expression attempts to combine 2 separate checks via an 'or' condition where:

1. The first expression condition should simply check for any overlapping assertion definitions. This means that a single assert must only define a single type of check. For example, 'resource' is a single check and 'responseCode' is a single check; therefore, both cannot be defined in the same assert. In addition, the list of overlapping assert elements is incomplete based the recent update/addition to the assert elements.

2. The second expression condition is meant to further constrain the intent of the first condition. However, this second expression fails to achieve this intent and allows the overall expression to evaluate false positive results.
Proposed Resolution

The existing expression for tst-5, tst-6 and tst-18 needs to be broken into 2 separate constraints that each can focus on the intended evaluations.

1. The tst-5, tst-6 and tst-18 constraint expression will be restricted to the check for any overlapping assertion definitions and its description updated as follows. (The description of each constraint will refer to the TestScript setup, test and common assert elements respectively.)

Description: "A setup action assert SHALL define a singular assertion function and prevent overlapping assertion functionality."

Expression: 


extension.exists() or (compareToSourceId.count() + contentType.count() + expression.count() + headerField.count() + minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + path.count() + requestMethod.count() + requestURL.count() + resource.count() + responseCode.count() + response.count() + validateProfileId.count() &lt;= 1)

 

2. New constraints for the TestScript setup, test and common assert elements will be defined to handle the condition where the assert operator and value elements must be restricted from use with either of the minimumId, navigationLinks and validateProfileId elements.

Description: "A setup action assert SHALL not allow the use of operator and value with minimumId, navigationLinks or validateProfileId."

Expression: 


extension.exists() or (minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + validateProfileId.count() = 0) or (minimumId.count() + navigationLinks.count() + validateProfileId.count() = 1 and operator.count() + value.count() = 0)

### 3. Richard Ettema - 8/19/25
Security: Public

PR waiting for approval - https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3607

### 4. Richard Ettema - 8/25/25
Security: Public

PR https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3607 approved and merged

