# FHIR-44047: Incorrect punctuation of exempli gtatia and id est (e.g., & i.e.,) throughout

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Incorrect? Isn't that a matter of style and context? These are abbreviations and the unabbreviated expression can be used without commas, for example in sentences like this. I don't think they should be without the commas, but also not think the use without a comma is automatically incorrect.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/14/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Throughout the specification you will find the abbreviation for "exempli gratia" and "id est" being incorrectly used. Proper usage is "e.g.," and "i.e.," (with comma) respectively, but throughout the IG both are used mostly without the comma.  This needs correcting.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-44047
- **Related Page(s)**: (many)
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot1/
- **Reporter**: Jeff Brown
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Should make a note to review this as we review content for R6.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Incorrect punctuation of exempli gtatia and id est (e.g., & i.e.,) throughout
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44047

## Comments

### 1. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 5/14/24
Security: Public

Incorrect? Isn't that a matter of style and context? These are abbreviations and the unabbreviated expression can be used without commas, for example in sentences like this. I don't think they should be without the commas, but also not think the use without a comma is automatically incorrect.

### 2. Jeff Brown - 5/15/24
Security: Public

Yes, it is considered incorrect in proper English.

### 3. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 5/15/24
Security: Public

Is there a reference? and this is changing the IG? Which IG?

I don't think I can add much to a debate since I am not a native English speaker or a linguist and I don't know what is considered proper English.

### 4. Jeff Brown - 5/15/24
Security: Public

If you look above in the Jira ticket it indicates that this is a TC request for FHIR R6 ballot (https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot1/), and not a specific IG.  Although, this is a common small correction needed in various IGs.   

I think this is a small and simple issue and I am not interested in debating such a trivial correction - I am only pointing out what it should be for what it's worth.

