# FHIR-21650: Operation to manage big List and Group resources

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: agree to draft something for implementers
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/17/19
- **Created**: 5/7/19
- **Description**: List and Group resources can contain a lot of entries / members (eg Group used for bulk data operations can contain tens of thousands Patients), this could make dealing with them as a whole hard for a client. To work around this issue add the following operations:

         $getPage?offset=X&amp;count=Y

         Instance level operation that returns a List or Group with just the specified subset of its entries / members (offset 0 based, default to 0, count could default as for the _count of a search operation). The returned resource is marked as SUBSETTED as when using _summary or _elements.

         $add

         Instance level operation.  Receives a POSTed List or Group resource whose entries / members are added to the existing ones. An optional offset parameter specifies where to add them. Other element in the POSTed List / Group replace the value of the existing ones

         $remove

         Instance level operation. Removes the entries / members specified by the offset and count paremetrs from the List or Group. 

         See https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Paging.20through.20a.20resource.20content
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-21650
- **Related Artifact(s)**: List
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/list-operations.html
- **Reporter**: Michele Mottini
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Operation to manage big List and Group resources
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-21650

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 9/17/19
Security: Public

agree to draft something for implementers

### 2. Brian Postlethwaite - 2/2/20
Security: Public

With the List resource type I prototyped updating a list with a custom operation $apply-changes with the List as a changeset to update it. This did leave me with some questions on when to update the  header properties and when to only update the list members.

Patch is problematic as you need to know the position in the list to add/remove, which means you need to know the entire set to make a change.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/8/22
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2019-09-17 00:00:00.0 with vote Michael Donnelly/Josh Mandel: 12-0-1//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//The discussion in Atlanta Tue Q4 resulted in these conclusions:            * We see the need for having a kind of paging operation on a specific set of resources.* We think a route to explore is to define these methods for certain resources, where each method would specify which element gets pages.* We would like to use the same mechanism we have used for paged Bundles (so, opaque next/prev tokens or links)* We would like to try this out in a future connectathon* We would need to find a way to make it clear that a server is not returning the full resource, maybe beyond the subsetted marker (metadata about the element paged on?)* We should define expectations on what servers should do when servers don't support READ but do support the paging operations.             The need is obvious for READ, we would like to explore whether PATCH is enough to fulfill the update usecases.            To proceed, James A. will add to List and Group a resource-level operation $getPage and try this out at a future connectathon.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/8/22
Security: Public

Re-opening to tackle resolution as part of FHIR-37803

Motion: Josh Mandel/Grahame Grieve: 10-0-0

