# FHIR-48664: Allow binding on first element (of datatype profiles)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: In addition - should we be surfacing any of the "prohibited" rules as invariants in the StructureDefinition?  Because validators aren't necessarily going to be aware of the content in the table.

Will wait to discuss until we have Grahame Grieve and hopefully Ewout Kramer
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/29/25
- **Created**: 10/17/24
- **Description**: From https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/ValueSet.20binding.20on.20CodeableConcept.20in.20datatype.20profile – it is clear that bindings on the root of datatype profiles are not possible. 

However, this is a valid profiling use case. In our current situation, we have a profile on CodeableConcept datatype that contains a binding. It is used in around 20 host profiles that use this CodeableConcept datatype. Unfortunately, it is not possible to bind the ValueSet only ones but rather, every profile that uses this CodeableConcept datatype profile will need to bind the ValueSet. 

(This datatype profile contains an extension and some documentation so it is still worth it to create the profile...)

The zulip chat contains examples in a zip file.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48664
- **Related Page(s)**: ElementDefinition
- **Related Section(s)**: https://hl7.org/fhir/elementdefinition.html#interpretation
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/elementdefinition.html#interpretation
- **Reporter**: Ardon Toonstra
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Allow binding on first element (of datatype profiles)

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48664

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/29/25
Security: Public

In addition - should we be surfacing any of the "prohibited" rules as invariants in the StructureDefinition?  Because validators aren't necessarily going to be aware of the content in the table.

Will wait to discuss until we have Grahame Grieve and hopefully Ewout Kramer

