# FHIR-31405: Clarify expected behavior of ElementDefinition properties in differential

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We don't feel comfortable trying to land this without your input.  Can you do a quick scan of the array elements and indicate what you feel their behaviors are (as reflected in the current snapshot generator) as well as how you'd like us to document their behavior?  We can then make sure that Firely and Chris are onside and resolve the issue.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 6/28/21
- **Created**: 3/3/21
- **Description**: The specification is not clear about the expected behavior of differential elements and how they contribute to the generation of their corresponding snapshot elements.

For example, several properties in ElementDefinition are multi-cardinality (i.e., arrays), but there is not a consistent approach to how these arrays are applied to the original element definition (or a slice base) to produce an updated snapshot element. The entire original array might be replaced by the array in the differential (e.g., `type`), or the differential array might be appended to the original array (e.g., maybe `mapping`?), or there might be a more complex "upsert" type operation (e.g., `constraint`).  We need to clarify which properties use which behaviors.

For those "upserts" (or "matched updates") we also need to define if the updates are "sparse" or "complete".

It is also worth considering if the behavior differs when slices "inherit" properties from their base.

See: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/215610-shorthand/topic/Exclude.20inherited.20array.20elements/near/228613574
- **Grouping**: [Deferred]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-31405
- **Reporter**: Chris Moesel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Clarify expected behavior of ElementDefinition properties in differential

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-31405

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/28/21
Security: Public

We don't feel comfortable trying to land this without your input.  Can you do a quick scan of the array elements and indicate what you feel their behaviors are (as reflected in the current snapshot generator) as well as how you'd like us to document their behavior?  We can then make sure that Firely and Chris are onside and resolve the issue.

### 2. Ewout Kramer - 7/12/23
Security: Public

This is what the .NET snapgen does (see https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/blob/develop/src/Hl7.Fhir.Conformance/Specification/Snapshot/ElementDefnMerger.cs for more details):


Primitive elements: diff overwrites value of primitive in base, extensions are accumulated.

Complex elements: non-null subelements in complex element overwrite base, others are kept untouched. Note: extensions in diff would overwrite extensions in base in this case. Specifically for Binding, the extension collections are accumulative.

Collections:

	Default behaviour: snap adds elements, unless they already exist in base. This is based on full equality (deep compare of the element).
	Exceptions:
   - Code: equality is based on system+version+code, if not set based on Display
   - Alias: equality is based on the string value
   - Id: equality is based on the string value
   - ValueAlternatives: equality is based on the string value

