# FHIR-39503: FHIR Package: Specifications to enable private package registries

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Brian Kaney
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Future discussion about:

	2.1 of the FHIR Package specification page - https://confluence.hl7.org/display/FHIR/NPM+Package+Specification#NPMPackageSpecification-Versionreferences
	Specifying ability to specify registry to include guidance in the specs so the tools will follow.



Recommending to include guidance in the FHIR package spec using real world scenarios to encourage interoperable FHIR packages
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 11/29/22
- **Created**: 11/28/22
- **Description**: It is common outside of FHIR to have both public and private registries for software artifacts (NPM, docker, etc). This pattern should be supported by FHIR packages. Advancing the specification to support external registries and npm scoped packages would enable this, and should lead to modifications in public (and private/commercial) FHIR tooling.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-39503
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ImplementationGuide
- **Reporter**: Brian Kaney
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: # We will update the existing extension to add the proposed invariant
 # We will document (where?) that NPM scopes are supported (but not required) in HL7 packages.
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: FHIR Package: Specifications to enable private package registries
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-39503

## Comments

### 1. Brian Kaney - 11/29/22
Security: Public

Future discussion about:

	2.1 of the FHIR Package specification page - https://confluence.hl7.org/display/FHIR/NPM+Package+Specification#NPMPackageSpecification-Versionreferences
	Specifying ability to specify registry to include guidance in the specs so the tools will follow.



Recommending to include guidance in the FHIR package spec using real world scenarios to encourage interoperable FHIR packages

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/12/22
Security: Public

Brian Kaney, can you join the FHIR-I call on Jan. 9 call?  Alternatively, can you start a discussion on Zulip identifying what specific changes you'd like to see?

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/3/23
Security: Public

Can you join our call on May 1 (next time we expect Grahame to be here) so the two of you can talk more about this?

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Brian Kaney when can you join one of our Monday calls so we can try to land this?

### 5. Brian Kaney - 7/11/23
Security: Public

Hi Lloyd McKenzie  – I will join this coming Monday (Jul 17). Thanks for following up

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/17/23
Security: Public

Brian Kaney will put together a formal proposal for the extension, including what the policy around its use would be.

### 7. Brian Kaney - 7/24/23
Security: Public

Adding scope support to FHIR Package and Implementation Guide

Here is a prototype of how the extension might work for ImplementationGuide resources: https://fshschool.org/FSHOnline/#/share/3pUWv3W

Grahame pointed out this is the likely extension: http://build.fhir.org/ig/FHIR/fhir-tools-ig/branches/master/StructureDefinition-package-scope.html – I recommend adding invariant to check to ensure the value does not contain `@` or `/` characters.

As to the FHIR Package specification, it would be adding prose to allow the support of optional package scopes.

Supporting NPM distribution

There was another topic that came of of this, which is to support NPM conventions of indicating 1) where the tarball for the package is located and 2) the SHA checksum of the package.

NOTE: `packages.fhir.org` already supports this.

### 8. Brian Kaney - 7/25/23
Security: Public

And now packages2 seems to support this as well, see https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179239-tooling/topic/NPM.20Registry/near/377460131

### 9. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Grahame's not sure we need an extension at all.  He wants more implementation experience before we land on an answer

