# FHIR-53641: use of .profile vs .supportedProfile is not clear enough

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 12/16/25
- **Description**: see zulip https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179280-fhir.2Finfrastructure-wg/topic/CapabilityStatement.20resource.2Eprofile.20meaning/with/564121891

 

The distinction between .profile and .supportedProfile is not clear enough. The chat indicates that Grahame is indicating that the use of .profile means that no non-conformant resources are allowed. 

Specifics, the words "applied" are not clear as to mean profile validation and error if not valid.

The relationship between how these two elements are to be interpretated also seems to be distinct in Client vs Server; yet that is never stated. Are clients able to bomb if non-conformant resources are returned? If not, then what assurance does the .profile deliver?

The relationship of a Requirements CS setting .profile or .supportedProfile is unclear on what is allowed in an Implementation CS. Is a product/implementation allowed to declare conformance to a Requirements CS and yet not enforce validation, and/or return results that are not conformant? What about an implementation of multiple Requirements CS that have conflicting requirements, can the more relaxed be implemented or must the most strict be implemented.

I would prefer a Postel's Law perspective, but I mostly want expectations to be clear. I understand that since .supportedProfiles to indicate a preponderance of compliance without strict compliance; that this means that .profile is more clearly able to be strict.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53641
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: use of .profile vs .supportedProfile is not clear enough

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53641

## Comments

_No comments in export._
