# FHIR-53110: Clarify role of SearchParameter.target

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 10/11/25
- **Description**: It isn't clear to me whether SearchParameter.target provides documentation of the behavior of the search param, or drives the behavior; or what the meaning is when missing.

Consider a search parameter ("SP") of resource type that with target of Patient, Practitioner, Group and a context of  Encounter.subject, ServiceRequest.subject, and Observation.subject

Encounter.subject allows a proper subset (Patient, Group) of the types that the SP.target lists. There is no question of returning a type not listed by target, and SearchParameter.target documentation makes clear that listing more types than may be returned is permitted.

ServiceRequest.subject allows types (Patient, Group, Location, Device) not listed by the SP.target list, and the SP.target list includes types not allowed by ServiceRequest.subject. Again, according to the SearchParameter documentation, it isn't an issue that the SP.target allows types not included in ServiceRequest.subject. However, the SearchParameter documentation isn't clear on whether (in the absence of any FHIRpath to further narrow the returned content), search will return Location or Device resource or if the {{target }}element serves to filter them out.

Observation.subject permits a superset of types listed in SP.target. It isn't clear (again, in the absence of further narrowing FHIRpath) of whether that search will only return types listed by SP.target, or whether it would return any of the types permitted by Observation.subject.

If we accept that SearchParameter.target acts as a filter on the results, then any search that uses someElement.where(resolve() is Patient) could be simplified to {{someElement }}only. This might enable us to disallow use of {{resolve() }}completely in search.

If the element has a filtering role (only types listed are permitted to be returned, but not all types listed need to be returned) that should be made clear. In this case, there seems to be an implied * / {{Resource }}/ {{Any }}if the element is missing which should be documented.

On the other hand, we could consider that SearchParameter.target is purely documentation, and actually has no role in what could be returned. Again there is an implication that any type could be returned if the element isn't present, but since it doesn't actually impact the result, we can be more relaxed about clarifying.

Clarify if SearchParameter.target has a computational filtering role, or if it has a documentary role, and update documentation as needed.

#implementers &gt; R5: missing SearchParameter.target
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53110
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SearchParameter
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Clarify role of SearchParameter.target
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53110

## Comments

_No comments in export._
