# FHIR-48679: Issue with invalid MIME types

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Forgot to note relevant ticket https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-20617 , which added the 'bare' types to CapabilityStatement.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/21/24
- **Created**: 10/21/24
- **Description**: Currently ValueSet MIME Types is defined as the expansion of urn:ietf:bcp:13.  This is inclusive of all valid MIME types.

Some elements (e.g., CapabilityStatement.format) also allow 'simplified' expressions of xml, json, and ttl noting that they represent the equivalent FHIR MIME type.  In some cases, those elements further define the use of extended value sets that include them (e.g., ValueSet Capability Format Type).


	In the cases where an additional value set is referenced, how does that interact with being invalid in the required binding to MIME types?
	In the cases where an additional value set is not referenced (e.g., Signature.sigFormat), what is the expectation of a comment that indicates invalid values are allows?



If the 'bare' format components are expected to be allowed, we should add them to Value Set MIME Types so that they are generally allowed.  This would remove the need for comments in elements to allow those values and also make usage consistent across the spec.

Otherwise, we should remove them and make the spec consistent that way.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48679
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Issue with invalid MIME types

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48679

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 10/21/24
Security: Public

Forgot to note relevant ticket https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-20617 , which added the 'bare' types to CapabilityStatement.

