# FHIR-46110: comments on CapabilityStatement.rest[.resource].searchParam are misleading about the search parameter to include

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Nicolas Riss
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Hi Nicolas!

We got quite the same problem there, I don't understand what kind of SP we can use in CS.searchParam

Here is indicated that we shouldn't define like _include or _revinclude as searchparameter :
https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179252-IG-creation/topic/.E2.9C.94.20R5.20CapabilityStatement.20Canonical.20URL.20does.20not.20resolve.20e.2E.2E.2E/near/314580585

https://build.fhir.org/capabilitystatement-base.json.html
But in the R6 example, we still can find _include and _revinclude SP in the CS :


 

And when we define the usage of these SP in the CS, we got some errors in the QA:

https://interop.esante.gouv.fr/ig/fhir/ror/qa.html#_tmp_ans.fhir.fr.ror_0.3.0-milestone_fsh-generated_resources_CapabilityStatement-ror-consommateur

If we are not defining these sp in the cs, how can we say that a server should be able to manage _count, _has, _include, _revinclude ...? 

Thanks for your help!
- **Assignee**: Corey Spears
- **Comments**: 11/25/24
- **Created**: 6/10/24
- **Description**: The `CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam` attribute's comment mention that some parameters that are not strictly search parameters should be included :

The search parameters should include the control search parameters such as _sort, _count, etc. that also apply to this resource (though many will be listed at CapabilityStatement.rest.searchParam). 

However it seems that such parameters (_sort, _format, _pretty, _total...) are not search parameter and therefor shall not be included in capabilitystatement (at least in the `CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam` attribute).

The search result parameters are not actually search parameters and do not have definitions as such. They cannot be listed in the CapabilityStatement alongside the search parameters.

see here

I guess the above quoted comment of the `CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam` attribute should be removed. 

Optionnaly, it would be helpful to have a sentence expliciting that some parameters (Search Control Parameters) shall not be mentionned in searchParam attributes of CapabilityStatement resources. 

This is true for both: 

	CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam
	CapabilityStatement.rest.searchParam
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46110
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CapabilityStatement (Conformance)
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/capabilitystatement-definitions.html#CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam
- **Reporter**: Nicolas Griffon
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add guidance to CapabilityStatement.rest.searchParam and CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam that says:

If documenting a parameter that is not a 'true' SearchParameter (such as _format, _count, etc.), the .definition element SHALL be omitted and the type SHOULD be 'special'.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: comments on CapabilityStatement.rest[.resource].searchParam are misleading about the search parameter to include
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46110

## Comments

### 1. Nicolas Riss - 11/25/24
Security: Public

Hi Nicolas!

We got quite the same problem there, I don't understand what kind of SP we can use in CS.searchParam

Here is indicated that we shouldn't define like _include or _revinclude as searchparameter :
https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179252-IG-creation/topic/.E2.9C.94.20R5.20CapabilityStatement.20Canonical.20URL.20does.20not.20resolve.20e.2E.2E.2E/near/314580585

https://build.fhir.org/capabilitystatement-base.json.html
But in the R6 example, we still can find _include and _revinclude SP in the CS :


 

And when we define the usage of these SP in the CS, we got some errors in the QA:

https://interop.esante.gouv.fr/ig/fhir/ror/qa.html#_tmp_ans.fhir.fr.ror_0.3.0-milestone_fsh-generated_resources_CapabilityStatement-ror-consommateur

If we are not defining these sp in the cs, how can we say that a server should be able to manage _count, _has, _include, _revinclude ...? 

Thanks for your help!

