# FHIR-41627: Declaration of SUBSETTED resources for language

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/26/23
- **Description**: The R5 (and current) spec describes the use of HTTP headers to instruct servers to return content for a specified language.

If the server returns a resource with a specific language component, does that not infer that the whole resource is not returned and as such the resource should be marked as SUBSETTED.

In other parts of the standard where responses are SUBSETTED, the following text is used

Servers SHOULD mark the resources with the tag SUBSETTED  to ensure that the incomplete resource is not actually used to overwrite a complete resource.

There is no clear signposting as to how the use of that tag prevents updating. The provision of ETags for SUBSETTED resources is not described (or I could not find it).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41627
- **Related Page(s)**: Multi-Language Support (languages)
- **Related Section(s)**: 7.16.6
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/languages.html
- **Reporter**: Richard Kavanagh
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: It's not necessarily the case that translated resources are 'subsetted'.  I.e. the full information may well be available.  However, that information is not considered to be source of truth and therefore might not be an appropriate basis for updating.  Will add the following:

"If a server changes the primary language of text based on a request for a resource in a particular language, that altered version is likely no longer an appropriate basis for making updates to the server.  Servers can ensure that the provided resource is not used as a basis for making updates by opting to not include an eTag as part of the response and enforcing version-specific updates.  Alternatively, it might include a meta.tag of 'TRSLT' to designate that the resource has been translated and is not an appropriate basis for updates."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Declaration of SUBSETTED resources for language
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41627

## Comments

_No comments in export._
