# FHIR-45507: Need more clarification around how 'url' references are handled

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: definitely (as it is, it says 'Urls may be relative references or may reference transient locations such as a wrapping envelope using cid: though this has ramifications for using signatures'. urn:uuid: references are another kind of transient location
	yes it should count for detecting the graph, for at least some kinds of resources (binary, ?)
	always that's the expectation in a bundle 
	(and 5): what have canonicals got to do with this? But in principle, it works like canonical resolution, and it's an error if there's multiple possible matches
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/7/24
- **Created**: 5/6/24
- **Description**: Can Attachment.url be a urn:uuid inside a document or message?  (It would suck if it can't...)
	Do we expect that urls will count when resolving the "all entries in a document or message must be part of the same graph"?
	If resolving urls (or any reference for that matter) in a message or document, is the expectation that you always try to resolve within the Bundle first, and only if you can't find the reference do you go outside?
	How does canonical resolution work when checking for graph connectedness in a message or document?
	How does canonical resolution work if there are multiple possible matches for a canonical reference within a Bundle?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45507
- **Related Page(s)**: References
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: 1. Will define a new section in Bundle.notes called "Graph-connected Bundles" following "Resolving references in Bundles".  Content:

"Both [FHIR messages](messaging.html) and [FHIR documents](documents.html) have a requirement that all entries within the Bundle are interconnected.  This expectation means that all entries in the Bundle must produce a single graph of interconnected resources.  These connections might be via Reference, canonical, url, or "href" references within narrative.  Note that some references might be 'reverse' references, such as Provenances that point to resources within the Bundle.  These references are resolved as defined above."

2. Will update the language in both the messaging and documents page to point to this language with "All message Bundles SHALL be a [fully-interconnected graph](link to above)." and  "All document Bundles SHALL be a [fully-interconnected graph](link to above)."

3. On Attachment comments, will append to "Urls may be relative references or may reference transient locations such as a wrapping envelope using cid: though this has ramifications for using signatures. " the following "Urls may also be URIs only resolvable within a Bundle containing the resource with the attachment type."

4. In the section on Bundle reference resolution, will add this above the section that says "Resolving other references"

"Resolving canonical references:
 * If the canonical reference is version-specific, look for an entry with a matching URL and version.   If the canonical omits version, look for an entry with a matching URL and if there is more than one, find the most recent version based on the versionAlgorithm. 
 * If there is exactly one, it's a match.  If there are no matches, then resolve as an external canonical as usual.  If there is more than one, it's an error."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need more clarification around how 'url' references are handled
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45507

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 5/7/24
Security: Public

definitely (as it is, it says 'Urls may be relative references or may reference transient locations such as a wrapping envelope using cid: though this has ramifications for using signatures'. urn:uuid: references are another kind of transient location
	yes it should count for detecting the graph, for at least some kinds of resources (binary, ?)
	always that's the expectation in a bundle 
	(and 5): what have canonicals got to do with this? But in principle, it works like canonical resolution, and it's an error if there's multiple possible matches

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/7/24
Security: Public

urn:uuid is not technically a URL.  We should make it clearer that this is allowed.
	Ok.  We'll need to clarify that too.
	Will need to clarify that too
	/ 5. For canonicals, the question is whether if you have a document Bundle with a QuestionnaireResponse that also includes the Questionnaire, whether the fact the QuestionnaireResponse references the Questionnaire would count as satisfying "everything connected".

### 3. Grahame Grieve - 5/7/24
Security: Public

Sure, we can clarify. But it's more a url than cid: so there shouldn't be any doubt.

4/5 is really a separate task, but it should be clear, and I'm sure there's already a test case for it in the validator test cases

