# FHIR-51888: Allow extensions on Bundle and Parameters

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Interestingly, backport/preadoption extensions to get this working in R4 won't help here...
- **Assignee**: Cooper Thompson
- **Comments**: 8/20/25
- **Created**: 8/20/25
- **Description**: Bundle, Binary and Parameters resources don't allow extensions.  This has been problematic in at least two cases:

	I've personally had useful metadata I wanted to include in Bundle.
	The Bulk Data IG uses the Parameters resource for Bulk Import, and we had to use janky workarounds to allow child IGs to add their own metadata.



 

FHIR defines a super useful, consistent way to extend FHIR resources (extensions).  We should allow that feature to be used on all the FHIR resources, including Bundle and Parameters.  And Binary while we are at it.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51888
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource

Binary

Bundle

Parameters
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/resource.html
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Allow extensions on Bundle and Parameters
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51888

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 8/20/25
Security: Public

Interestingly, backport/preadoption extensions to get this working in R4 won't help here...

### 2. Cooper Thompson - 8/20/25
Security: Public

Parameters does have a workaround in that you can define a single parameter that is Parameters.parameter.resource that is a Basic resource and put your extensions there.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 5/11/26
Security: Public

Discussed at FHIR-I on May 11.

We are wondering why putting extensions on Resource.meta is not a suitable workaround for adding metadata to the resources in question.

If there are issues with that, please let us know.

### 4. Cooper Thompson - 5/11/26
Security: Public

That does work - I didn't consider that initially.  It is weird that you do extensions differently for Bundle vs. most other resources.  Though since since Resource.meta.extension exists on all resources, what is the semantic difference between Resource.extension and Resource.meta.extension?

