# FHIR-51098: Add a new element for the canoncaization algorithm to Signature

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Where multiple signatures are available, knowing the canonicalization of each would also allow you to select the signature .data that is the one you want. So like the other elements in Signature (.type, .when, .who) that are there to help the recipient understand signature (alternatives) available, this would be useful as well. Like those others, this should not be the value trusted.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 6/13/25
- **Created**: 6/13/25
- **Description**: When creating a signature on a resource- typically, a Bundle - the resource has to be canonicalized as part of the signature process. The standard defines several different values for how a resource was canonicalised that have to do with the scope of what's being signed

The canonicalisation method has to be written into the JWS header, if you're doing sigFormat = application/Jose, and it needs to be there - it needs to be signed

But it's an interesting thing to know even if you're not verifying the signature - what's the scope of the signature. The best way is to add an element for this to Signature 

See Signature on Zulip
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51098
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: 1. Will add a new 0..1 canonicalizationAlgorithm with type uri.

Definition: "A reference to the formal canonicalization algorithm used with this signature."

 

 

However: looks redundant with the mechanism to send canonicalization as part of the mime type.  Grahame to investigate
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Add a new element for the canoncaization algorithm to Signature
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51098

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 6/13/25
Security: Public

Where multiple signatures are available, knowing the canonicalization of each would also allow you to select the signature .data that is the one you want. So like the other elements in Signature (.type, .when, .who) that are there to help the recipient understand signature (alternatives) available, this would be useful as well. Like those others, this should not be the value trusted.

### 2. John Moehrke - 6/13/25
Security: Public

seems we need a new element 0..*

multiple as it is possible to have multiple transforms in both xml-signature and jose. (I think)

### 3. John Moehrke - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Discussed in Security WG. We agreed to elevate this to a CP. Discussed that we agree with the proposal. Ran out of time to complete the disposition and voting. Will discuss next call.

### 4. John Moehrke - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Note that for Bundle to have multiple .signatures with different purposes, who, time, or canonicalization; we do need https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51099 to allow .signature to be 0..*; where it is 0..1 today.

