# FHIR-54530: Are the narrative guidelines optional or required?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Khalid Shahin
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bas van den Heuvel 
This page is controlled by FHIR-I, so they will need to discuss.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/19/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: When presenting the narrative of the document, the rules described above SHALL be followed


The referred section on narratives states it is recommended (SHOULD). Are these intended to be mandatory? If not, change this to SHOULD, if so change those requirements to SHALL.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54530
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-54531: Recommend access to original document is tricky
- **Related Page(s)**: Documents
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.4.3.2
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will drop this bullet

"When presenting the narrative of the document, the rules described above SHALL be followed".  It's already covered by the earlier section talking about narrative (which has been loosened to SHOULD in a prior release.)
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Are the narrative guidelines optional or required?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54530

## Comments

### 1. Khalid Shahin - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Bas van den Heuvel 
This page is controlled by FHIR-I, so they will need to discuss.

### 2. John D'Amore - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Discussed at 19 May 2026 and related to comments on other ticker

### 3. Heath Frankel - 5/19/26
Security: Public

think this is not persuasive as the rules that SHALL be followed is the whole section, while the part is SHOULD is just some part the requirements in this section.

