# FHIR-17574: Add classification to Address

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: looks like an extension to me
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/30/18
- **Created**: 7/30/18
- **Description**: For the Epidemiology use case (and potentially others) it is useful to futher classify the patient's address beyond what is available in Address.use. For example: "Assisted living facility, school, dormitory, Long-term care facility/nursing home, Correctional facility, Shelterm Day care/group baby-sit, Unknown, Other congregate living facility". 

         Recommend adding Address.classification as a CodeableConcept with an example binding to allow specific use cases to classify address as needed.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-17574
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/datatypes.html#Address
- **Reporter**: Rick Geimer
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will define a standard extension on address called classification as 0..1 with a preferred binding to a terminology based on the proposed set of codes.  (We'll try to use existing codes rather than make up new ones.)
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add classification to Address
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-17574

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 7/30/18
Security: Public

looks like an extension to me

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 8/7/18
Security: Public

MnM 7-Aug 2018 - would only be an extensinon. Seek opinion from PHER

### 3. Craig Newman - 10/31/19
Security: Public

The PH WG thinks that this classification is more about the location rather than the address itself. Location already has a "type" element (with an extensible value set) but there's no way to link a location to the patient's address.

         An example where this may be useful is follow up on lead paint exposure.

         We want to talk more on a future call after we've had some time to think about it. We'll provide an update next week (11/7)

### 4. Craig Newman - 11/7/19
Security: Public

We noted that the Patient resource doesn't have a Location element (for either home or work or other types of activities). WG members will submit the ways of documenting locations types today (including value sets) so that we can get a picture of places that this sort of data is exchanged today. There may be a need to update the address data type (possibly as an extension) as this could be useful for Public Health purposes. Or it may make more sense to add the ability to document patient related Locations.

### 5. Craig Newman - 11/21/19
Security: Public

The Public Health WG sees the theoretical utility of being able to classify an address but we don't have a solid use case for it right now. An extension seems appropriate but it may make sense to wait until an IG documents a use case that requires this. Once that scenario arises, we would support a standard extension for address classification.

Sarah will check with Rick to figure out what prompted this suggestion in the first place and to see if he has a solid use case.

### 6. Craig Newman - 11/22/19
Security: Public

From Rick:

 Rick Geimer 07:45

I raised it over a year ago, and have not really needed it since, so I am actually happy with Grahame's suggestion of an extension.

 Sarah Gaunt 07:46

What was the original use case? Like why did you raise it?

 Rick Geimer 07:46

To be honest I don't even remember what the context was. Some IG we were working on I guess.

### 7. Grahame Grieve - 11/23/19
Security: Public

Looks to me like we should define an extension that links Address to a Location

### 8. Craig Newman - 5/8/23
Security: Public

The COVID pandemic has given an example of where the address type (living arrangement) was captured. We will talk to the PA WG and Gravity to see if they have thoughts on this ticket.

### 9. Craig Newman - 5/9/23
Security: Public

Referring back to FHIR-I as Public Health has weighed in, but the address data type belongs to FHIR-I so they should select the final disposition

### 10. Cooper Thompson - 7/22/25
Security: Public

PA Conf Call - July 22, 2025

PA reviewed on two questions:

Do we have a value set that can be used for the proposed extension?

The value set we have for Location.type seems to include all (or most?) of the suggested concepts, so this seems like a good candidate for the extension:

https://terminology.hl7.org/5.1.0/ValueSet-v3-ServiceDeliveryLocationRoleType.html

 

Should we permit use of this extension directly on Location?

Given that we already have Location.type, and Location.address is 0..1, there is already a 1:1 mapping between the codes in the values et and an address inside Location, so we don't think we need to allow this extension on Location.

