# FHIR-46100: Why are you listing SDC CapabilityStatements?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Corey Spears
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Richard Ettema Could you propose a disposition?
- **Assignee**: Richard Ettema
- **Comments**: 7/1/24
- **Created**: 6/7/24
- **Description**: This resource shouldn't be mentioning SDC artifacts (which may change from release to release).  Really rather than codes here, this should be Canonical(ActorDefinition | CapabilityStatement) - seeing as that's where we formally define these things
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46100
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestScript
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/valueset-testscript-profile-origin-types.html
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: h3. *Revised Proposed Disposition (per Lloyd's comments)*

Update the TestScript origin and destination elements to combine them into one testSystem element with the following structure:
{panel}
testSystem
index          1..1 positiveInteger                 The index of the abstract test system
title            1..1 string                                 Label for system
actor          0..* canonical(ActorDefinition|CapabilityStatement) Features met by the test system
description 0..1 markdown                        Description of this test system
url              0..1 url                                    Link to additional information regarding this test system
{panel}
long definitions:

*index:* Number for the test system that is unique within this test script.  Referenced by operation.origin and/or operation.destination

*title:* A short human-friendly label for the test system that is unique within this test script and is used when rendering the script

*actor:* Reference to requirements that must be satisfied by the test system

*description:* Additional information about the role and capabilities of the systems that would participate in this portion of the script

*url:* A pointer to documentation about the test system held elsewhere.  Typically used in place of description

 

The existing code systems and value sets *testscript-profile-origin-types* and *testscript-profile-destination-types* will be removed.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Why are you listing SDC CapabilityStatements?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46100

## Comments

### 1. Corey Spears - 7/1/24
Security: Public

Richard Ettema Could you propose a disposition?

### 2. Richard Ettema - 9/9/24
Security: Public

The TestScript.origin and TestScript.destination attributes were introduced in the R3 (STU3) specification. The defined codes included the SDC IG client and server actors to provide more that just one code for each.

I agree that having IG specific actors is not appropriate for the base specification. To that end, I would recommend that the "SDC" specific codes be removed.

In order to not have just one code each, I believe the addition of CDS Hooks client and server code values would be appropriate.

We could also introduce HL7 CDA, V2 and V3 client and server codes values based on the TestScript resource page contents:

 


Note to Implementers: At this time the scope and usage of TestScript resources is focused on the FHIR specification. The TestScript resource scope and usage may expand in the future to include support for other HL7 specifications such as C-CDA and V2 as HL7 aligns these specifications with FHIR-based nomenclature and definitions. Future support may also additionally include non-HL7 specifications that leverage the FHIR specification such as IHE profiles.

 

The potential code values could look like this:

testscript-profile-origin-types

 

 



Code
Description


FHIR-Client
FHIR client used to initiate operations against a FHIR server.


HL7-CDA-Client
HL7 CDA client used to initiate requests against an HL7 CDA server.


HL7-V2-Client
HL7 V2 client used to initiate requests against an HL7 V2 server.


HL7-V3-Client
HL7 V3 client used to initiate requests against an HL7 V3 server.


CDS-Hooks-Client
CDS Hooks client used to initiate requests against an CDS Hooks server.





 

 

testscript-profile-destination-types

 



Code
Description


FHIR-Server
FHIR server used to respond to operations sent from a FHIR client.


HL7-CDA-Server
HL7 CDA server used to respond to operations sent from a HL7 CDA client.


HL7-V2-Server
HL7 V2 server used to respond to operations sent from a HL7 V2 client.


HL7-V3-Server
HL7 V3 server used to respond to operations sent from a HL7 V3 client.


CDS-Hooks-Server
CDS Hooks server used to respond to operations sent from a CDS Hooks client.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/16/24
Security: Public

Proposal is to drop the origin and destination code systems &amp; value sets entirely.  Combine "origin" and "destination" into "testSystem" which would have:

1..1 positiveInteger index

0..* canonical(ActorDefinition) implements

0..1 markdown description

0..1 url url

### 4. Richard Ettema - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Proposed Disposition

Update the following code systems for TestScript origin and destination code systems as follows:

testscript-profile-origin-types



Code
Display
Description


fhir
FHIR-Client
FHIR client used to initiate operations against a FHIR server


cda
HL7-CDA-Client
HL7 CDA client used to initiate requests against an HL7 CDA server


v2
HL7-V2-Client
HL7 V2 client used to initiate requests against an HL7 V2 server


v3
HL7-V3-Client
HL7 V3 client used to initiate requests against an HL7 V3 server


cds-hooks
CDS-Hooks-Client
CDS Hooks client used to initiate requests against an CDS Hooks server





testscript-profile-destination-types



Code
Display
Description


fhir
FHIR-Server
FHIR server used to respond to operations sent from a FHIR client


cda
HL7-CDA-Server
HL7 CDA server used to respond to requests sent from an HL7 CDA client


v2
HL7-V2-Server
HL7 V2 server used to respond to requests sent from an HL7 V2 client


v3
HL7-V3-Server
HL7 V3 server used to respond to requests sent from an HL7 V3 client


cds-hooks
CDS-Hooks-Server
CDS Hooks server used to respond to requests sent from an CDS Hooks client

### 5. Richard Ettema - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Revised Proposed Disposition (per Lloyd's comments)

Update the TestScript origin and destination elements to combine them into one testSystem element with the following structure:

testSystem
index          1..1 positiveInteger                 The index of the abstract test system starting at 1
type           1..1 code                                 origin | destination
actor          0..1 canonical(ActorDefinition) The actor that implements this test system
description 0..1 markdown                        Description of this test system
url              0..1 url                                    Link to additional information regarding this test system

The existing code systems testscript-profile-origin-types and testscript-profile-destination-types will be replaced with a new code system testscript-test-system-type:



Code
Display
Description


origin
Origin
The origin test system used to initiate operation request


destination
Destination
The destination test system used to respond to the operation request

