# FHIR-40341: Allow Group to be searched by characteristic valueQuantity and valueRange, and by exclude

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: From FHIR-I discussion: searching a cross numeric ranges could use the same pattern as searching for individual numbers: a quantity-type search param where clients can ask for "&amp;q=gt100&amp;q=lt200". Currently FHIR "quantity" search params can't index a whole range; that's something we can consider for R6.

In the meantime, can you propose a specific SearchParameter you'd like to see on Group, and validate it through some testing or experimentation? For example, you might want to use a composite that covers something like:

    .characteristic.code$.characteristic.valueRange.low$.characteristic.valueRange.high

&#8212; but this gets pretty complex!  If you can provide a design that works well for your use case, we'd be happy to include it as a core search param on Group.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/27/23
- **Created**: 1/27/23
- **Description**: Group resource can be use to define eligibility for a trial, using ResearchStudy.recruitment.eligibility : Reference(Group | EvidenceVariable)

A Group can represent an age range e.g.  0-21 year olds:
         &lt;Group&gt; ...
            &lt;characteristic&gt;
...                  &lt;code value="age-range"/&gt;
               &lt;valueRange&gt;
                  &lt;low&gt;
                     &lt;value value="0"/&gt;
                     &lt;unit value="year"/&gt;
                  &lt;/low&gt;
                  &lt;high&gt;
                     &lt;value value="21"/&gt;
                     &lt;unit value="year"/&gt;
                  &lt;/high&gt;
               &lt;/valueRange&gt;
               &lt;exclude value="false"/&gt;
            &lt;/characteristic&gt;

However it is not possible to search on the valueRange.

There is only a search parameter characteristic-value, which is composite, but only of code and the value as a code or boolean. 

It needs a composite that allows range. 

I would expect a 3 way composite of code and range.low and range.high.

Additionally, there is the exclude attribute, and it seems that any search on a characteristic would need to take that into account. 

So the existing parameters (characteristic-reference, characteristic-value) and the new one would probably need another composite part to add the exclude attribute.

Going even further, it is probably necessary to add characteristic.period to some of these composites but I don't have a use case for that right now.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40341
- **Reporter**: Rik Smithies
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Allow Group to be searched by characteristic valueQuantity and valueRange, and by exclude

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40341

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 3/27/23
Security: Public

From FHIR-I discussion: searching a cross numeric ranges could use the same pattern as searching for individual numbers: a quantity-type search param where clients can ask for "&amp;q=gt100&amp;q=lt200". Currently FHIR "quantity" search params can't index a whole range; that's something we can consider for R6.

In the meantime, can you propose a specific SearchParameter you'd like to see on Group, and validate it through some testing or experimentation? For example, you might want to use a composite that covers something like:

    .characteristic.code$.characteristic.valueRange.low$.characteristic.valueRange.high

&#8212; but this gets pretty complex!  If you can provide a design that works well for your use case, we'd be happy to include it as a core search param on Group.

### 2. Rik Smithies - 3/30/23
Security: Public

hi Josh, I am not sure what I can add here. Searching on a characteristic for age range and the low and high values from the range would be common. 

Your search expression looks good for that, and that is the only concrete case I can think of at the moment. 

It matches what I proposed, albeit a little imprecisely ("a 3 way composite of &#91;characteristic.&#93;code and &#91;characteristic.value&#93;range.low and &#91;characteristic.value&#93;range.high")

But how could I test that without a server that supports it?

### 3. Rik Smithies - 4/15/23
Security: Public

Josh Mandel for comment

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Is this still relevant with the proposed changes to Group that were discussed on the CDS calls?  Also, should those proposed Group changes come to FHIR-I for final approval?

### 5. Rik Smithies - 8/25/23
Security: Public

This predates and is not related to changes for Group for use as a reusable eligibility criteria entity (which was proposed originally as a new resource, but later suggested to be a re-use of Group). 

Unless that work proposes to change Group so that this change request no longer works, I think this request is still appropriate.

