# FHIR-43601: Extension array is defined differently in Address and Patient

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Ward Weistra
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: From this conversation on Zulip: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/215610-shorthand/topic/.E2.9C.94.20Different.20extension.20slicing.20rules.20on.20Resource.20vs.2E.20Datat.2E.2E.2E/near/409387142
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 1/11/24
- **Created**: 1/11/24
- **Description**: The FHIR core definition of Address already includes slicing information on Address.extension. On the other hand, the FHIR core definition of Patient does not include any slicing information on Patient.extension.

Let's make the definition of the extension array consistent across the core spec.

Reported from Zulip topic ✔ Different extension slicing rules on Resource vs. Datat... with Firely Bot.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43601
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Patient
- **Reporter**: Ward Weistra
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Extension array is defined differently in Address and Patient

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43601

## Comments

### 1. Ward Weistra - 1/11/24
Security: Public

From this conversation on Zulip: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/215610-shorthand/topic/.E2.9C.94.20Different.20extension.20slicing.20rules.20on.20Resource.20vs.2E.20Datat.2E.2E.2E/near/409387142

### 2. Reinhard Egelkraut - 1/31/24
Security: Public

Seems to be a tooling issue, FHIR-I please take care of it

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 10/7/24
Security: Public

DomainResource defines slicing on DomainResource.extension, but in the snapshot, it doesn't show up for Patient.extension.  However it does show up for Address.extension (which is inheriting it from Element.extension).

Why are these different?

There is some special rules here (https://build.fhir.org/profiling.html#discriminator), but it's not clear why we're different in handling data types vs. resources.

