# FHIR-42909: Add additional cases for no logical ID

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 10/10/23
- **Description**: In the Zulip thread here, some additional possible times a resource may not include an ID were discussed.  Suggest adding to the page for awareness.

Specifically:

	A Parameters resource passed to or from an operation.
	OperationOutcome resources.
	Non-restful use cases (e.g., resources in an email).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42909
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Make the statement that:

'id' is not expected to be present in a resource if it is passed around on its own outside of a Bundle and it is not available RESTfully on a server.  Specific examples of when a resource id would typically be absent include:
 * A resource submitted as part of a 'create' request
 * A search response or history response Bundle
 * Any resource (including Parameters) passed as input to an operation that was created purely for use as operation input and is not retained/persisted by the operation invoker
 * Any resource (including Parameters) received as output from an operation that was generated as part of performing the operation and is not retained/persisted by the operation performer.
 * A resource created for exchange outside the RESTful context (e.g. a document sent by email or FTP), including some types of messaging exchanges.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add additional cases for no logical ID
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42909

## Comments

_No comments in export._
