# FHIR-52932: versionAlgorithm needs additional entries and clarification

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Note that SNOMED URL handling was resolved by https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52899
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/22/25
- **Created**: 9/20/25
- **Description**: CanonicalResource defines versionAlgorithm. Though this field is generally useless because the version is resolved across resources, or before a particular resource is in context, it's also useless because it fails to describe versions for the most commonly used code systems:


	SNOMED CT
	LOINC 
	RxNorm
	ICD-10-CM
	DICOM



We should add URL as an option, for SCT, and do something in about variable dates formats, including the brain-dead format RxNorm uses 

Was for LOINC... what kind of versioning is that? Natural?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52932
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CanonicalResource
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-52899: Add url as a version algorithm code
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: * SNOMED CT - handled by recent addition {{sct-url}}
* LOINC - appears to be covered by {{natural}}
* RxNorm - add {{us-date}} {{MMDDYYYY}} (with or without separators).
* ICD-10-CM - will request feedback from the TI WG; if they want to characterize the versions of ICD-10, we will file an additional ticket.
* DICOM - actual versions appear to be covered by {{natural}}, but FHIR uses an HL7-assigned {{semver}} version.

Modify the {{date}} format from:
{quote}
Versions are expressed as an ISO date/time syntax (including syntaxes with only portions of a date)
{quote}
to:
{quote}
Versions are expressed as an ISO date/time syntax (including syntaxes with only portions of a date) in the general format of {{YYYY-MM-DD}} (with or without separators). Inclusion of the time portion is optional.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: versionAlgorithm needs additional entries and clarification
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52932

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 9/22/25
Security: Public

Note that SNOMED URL handling was resolved by https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52899

### 2. Gino Canessa - 9/22/25
Security: Public

Handles the SNOMED versioning scheme

### 3. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722

