# FHIR-47645: Cross version extensions - split off this section in separate IG

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussed at FHIR-I WGM Tuesday Q4.  Decision was to hold off on this ticket until we have the cross-version extensions published and then decide (before R6 is published).
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 9/24/24
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: This section has been under heavy debate (and change?) since its inception. At this point in time (Sept 2024)., the FHIR community has not been able to produce a correct extension pack (although we are close).

This section should be allowed to evolve and change independently of the FHIR specification until it is mature enough to be integrated again.
I suggest that we split of this section into a companion IG. The IG can be referred to from this page. This IG should treat the text in this section as (almost) normative and should not make changes unless things are obviously broken or unworkable.
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47645
- **Related Page(s)**: Change Management & Versioning (versions/compatibility)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.7.0.7
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/versions.html#extensions
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will retain the existing cross-version extensions section in the core spec to talk about the fact that it is possible and to explain the basics of how it works.  We will point from there to a new page in the extensions pack where we'll provide detailed rules for how the conversion packages are created, including taking into account things like name changes.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Cross version extensions - split off this section in separate IG
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47645

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 9/24/24
Security: Public

Discussed at FHIR-I WGM Tuesday Q4.  Decision was to hold off on this ticket until we have the cross-version extensions published and then decide (before R6 is published).

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/4/25
Security: Public

Will update this ticket when content is confirmed in the target guides.

