# FHIR-43332: Clients should have a way to detect supported sort order

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Created**: 12/4/23
- **Description**: I had assumed that support for a search parameter implied support for sorting on that search parameter. Apparently that is not true. There is also no way to know which elements can be sorted on.

Please:

	Clarify relationship between search parameters and sort. The text currently points out that sort is based on search parameters, not element names. It is not clear whether all supported search parameter may be used as sort keys, or whether sort keys may be used that do not correspond to search parameters or (more precisely) to search parameters that are supported. (Can you support sort by birth date without supporting search by birth date?) Does a server need to be able to support both ascending and descending search?
	Provide a mechanism for clients to know which search parameters are supported for search. Assuming that sort is always available on a subset of supported search parameters, perhaps an extension indicating support for sort on the search entries in the CapabilityStatement would work. (Need to consider compatibility for clients or servers that don't know to look for the extension.)
- **Grouping**: [CapabilityStatement2]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43332
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/search#sort
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Clients should have a way to detect supported sort order

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43332

## Comments

_No comments in export._
