# FHIR-44485: Support non-FHIR data

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We support having IGs point to non-FHIR 'instances' as examples and can indicate which logical models they're expected to comply with.  Should we modify the context of those extensions to also make them useable for ExampleScenario.instance, or should we do something different here.
- **Assignee**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Comments**: 2/12/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Instance should support non-FHIR data. Review structureX and content elements to ensure sufficient flexibility.

Existing Wording:
instance

(Comment 18 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Grouping**: [defer]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44485
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ExampleScenario
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related Section(s)**: 12.32.4
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Support non-FHIR data
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44485

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/12/24
Security: Public

We support having IGs point to non-FHIR 'instances' as examples and can indicate which logical models they're expected to comply with.  Should we modify the context of those extensions to also make them useable for ExampleScenario.instance, or should we do something different here.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/12/24
Security: Public

Don't think we need to use any of these extensions.

### 3. Elliot Silver - 2/12/24
Security: Public

Does that mean we only support non-FHIR instances if we have LogicalModels for them? I need to define an LM to include a Word document? Seems excessive.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/12/24
Security: Public

Nope.  You could just have the mime type.

