# FHIR-12848: IG Publisher Requires Root and Intermediate Paths in Differential

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Chris Moesel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: FYI &#8211; I am using the FHIR 1.8 igpublisher.jar w/ with an ig.json control file and profiles defined in JSON.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/16/17
- **Created**: 2/16/17
- **Description**: When authoring JSON profiles, I've been told that the differential section of profiles should not need to include the root element or any intermediate paths (unless the intermediate path itself is somehow constrained).  I've found, however, that if the root element is excluded from the differential, the IG Publisher only generates the first row of the differential table.  If an intermediate path is not included in the differential, then the IG Publisher will not write any of its children into the differential table.

         See this conversation for more details: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/implementers/topic/IG.20Publisher.20(1.2E8).20--.20Truncated.20Differential.20Tables.3F
- **Grouping**: [FHIR-Tools-IG]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-12848
- **Related Page(s)**: (profiles)
- **Reporter**: Chris Moesel
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Resolution Description**: Auto-deferred
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: IG Publisher Requires Root and Intermediate Paths in Differential
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-12848

## Comments

### 1. Chris Moesel - 2/16/17
Security: Public

FYI &#8211; I am using the FHIR 1.8 igpublisher.jar w/ with an ig.json control file and profiles defined in JSON.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 5/7/17
Security: Public

Is this a problem if you don't use spreadsheets to define the profile? This is a design limitation for spreadsheets

### 3. Chris Moesel - 5/8/17
Security: Public

I was defining profiles directly as JSON StructureDefinitions.  I was not using spreadsheets.  I can try it again with the new FHIR 3 IG Publisher jar if you'd like.

### 4. Grahame Grieve - 5/8/17
Security: Public

Yes please. And test, if there&#39;s a problem, is it just root, or other intermediaries?

### 5. Chris Moesel - 5/8/17
Security: Public

OK.  I've just confirmed that the problem is still there in the 3.0 publisher.  I've uploaded the JSON structure definition and screenshot of resulting differential table for three use cases:


	differential_full_path_hierarchy: This is where I put the root and all the necessary intermediate paths into the differential.  The result is as expected: a full differential table in the HTML.




	differential_no_root_path: This is where I don't have a root path specified in the differential.  The result is that the differential table in the HTML only includes the first element.




	differential_no_intermediate_participant_path: This is where I don't specify the participant path as a separate element, but I do have elements representing children of participant.  The result is that neither participant nor any of its children are visible in the differential table in HTML.

