# FHIR-52811: The use of # in Provenance in Bundles is unclear

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: how about
The Provenance resource is allowed to indicate that it signs additional resources, including the special target value #—which means that the Provenance signs itself as one of the Bundle entries (but not any digital signatures in the Provenance.signature element).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/24/25
- **Created**: 9/9/25
- **Description**: Section 6.1.2.2.9 says:
5.	The Provenance resource is allowed to indicate that it signs additional resources, including the special target value # which indicates that it signs itself in addition to the Bundle (but not including any Provenance.signature containing a digital signature).

Does this mean that a target # signs the bundle including the Provenance? The sentence is a bit confusing. Please improve.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52811
- **Related Page(s)**: Signatures
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/signatures.html#Bundles
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: The use of # in Provenance in Bundles is unclear

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52811

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 9/24/25
Security: Public

how about
The Provenance resource is allowed to indicate that it signs additional resources, including the special target value #—which means that the Provenance signs itself as one of the Bundle entries (but not any digital signatures in the Provenance.signature element).

### 2. EssienGe - 9/24/25
Security: Public

The wording itself sound more clear. 

However I want to discuss about this 2 scenario.(to be simpler, only considering one signature condition, not co-sign/countersign)

1. If the signing information is not signed, the provenance has one target "#/" (given resolution of https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52810 )

2. If the signing information is signed, the provenance has 2 targets "#/" and "#". 

If the understanding above is current. The design of case #2 may be a little complex as it is should more widely used. I actually not understand why one want to have case #1 if we have resolution of #2. 

With that being said, would suggest that "#/" just point to case #2 directly.(meaning you sign both the bundle and the current provenance, seems to me that this is unambiguous).

Meanwhile, if we do believe case #1 is also needed, we can add one additional canonical rule to address this special need. This is actually linked to  https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52812

