# FHIR-40405: Need profile on Identifer datatype that is holding a User identity

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Once this is available, then https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27164 should be addressed using this profile.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/6/23
- **Created**: 2/6/23
- **Description**: create an Identifier Datatype profile to apply to describe how to populate the identifier for user usage.

	value = username / userid
	assigner = assigning authority
	type = fixed value "username" or whatever you decide



Not clear that there is an existing code to use? https://terminology.hl7.org/3.1.0/CodeSystem-v2-0203.html
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40405
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Need profile on Identifer datatype that is holding a User identity

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40405

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 2/6/23
Security: Public

Once this is available, then https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27164 should be addressed using this profile.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-02-13 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/John Moehrke: 17-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//Need to add a new code to THO, but too late to do that for R5.  Will tackle as part of R6.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 4. Rita Torkzadeh - 5/19/23
Security: Public

John Moehrke Gino Canessa Lloyd McKenzie Richard Ettema I accidently assigned this to myself and not sure how to revert the error. Please let me know how or change!

### 5. Richard Ettema - 5/19/23
Security: Public

Rita Torkzadeh I have unassigned you.

