# FHIR-39022: Changes to EvidenceReport resource

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-02-08 00:00:00.0 with vote Howard Strasberg/Brian Alper: 17-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//The Composition resource is being profiled as a replacement for the EvidenceReport resource. Will consider these comments once the work to define that profile begins.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/30/23
- **Created**: 10/13/22
- **Description**: We suggest adding "publication-date" to the ListOrderCodes value set.

It seems odd to have COVID19-specific codes in the EvidenceClassifier value set. One alternative would be to add an element to EvidenceReport.section called something like PrimaryFocus with a data type of CodeableConcept and a preferred binding to SNOMED CT.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-39022
- **Related Artifact(s)**: EvidenceReport
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/2022SEP/evidencereport.html
- **Reporter**: Howard Strasberg
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The EvidenceReport resource has been removed from the specification, so this resolution does not involve any changes to it.

Add to [CodeSystem:List Order Codes|https://terminology.hl7.org/6.2.0/CodeSystem-list-order.html]
||Code||Display||Definition||
|publication-date|Sorted by Publication Date|The list is sorted by the date the item was published or made publicly available. This is distinct from when an event occurred (event-date) or when the item was added to the list (entry-date).|

Additionally, update the descriptions of the {{List Order Codes}} Code system and all of the codes so that they are not exclusive to the List resource.  E.g.:
{quote}
Base values for the order of the items in a list resource.
{quote}

to 

{quote}
Base values for the order of item lists in resources.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Changes to EvidenceReport resource
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-39022

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-02-08 00:00:00.0 with vote Howard Strasberg/Brian Alper: 17-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//The Composition resource is being profiled as a replacement for the EvidenceReport resource. Will consider these comments once the work to define that profile begins.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 3. BrianAlper - 2/5/24
Security: Public

In R6 the EvidenceReport Resource will be deprecated and an EvidenceReport Profile of Composition is included in the EBMonFHIR IG.

The ListOrderCodes value set is managed by FHIR-Infrastructure and the request to add "publication-date" to the ListOrderCodes value set would be useful beyond the EBMonFHIR IG.

Proposed disposition to transfer to FHIR-I with request to add "publication-date" to the ListOrderCodes value set.

### 4. BrianAlper - 3/13/25
Security: Public

request to add "publication-date" to the ListOrderCodes value set which is owned by FHIR-I

### 5. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

Since list-order code system is in THO, this change needs to be applied via UTG. This ticket takes care of that:

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/UP-739

### 6. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

Note the change is actually applied in THO:
https://jira.hl7.org/browse/UP-739

