# FHIR-55655: Change Binding to Extensible

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Extensible doesn't remove the need to map.  Implementers would still have to send the standard code if it applies to their desired priority level at any level of granularity, which would be most, if not all of the time.  If there's a need to convey more nuanced levels of priority, they can use extensions.  If we wanted to remove the need for implementers to map, then we'd have to go with 'preferred', which would mean there would be no interoperability on the element at all.

Can you give examples of situations where concepts that are truly 'priorities' can't be mapped to any of the standard codes?  (It's ok if multiple priorities map to the same globally-interoperable concept.)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/16/26
- **Created**: 2/10/26
- **Description**: Request.priority
Communication.priority
MedicationRequest.priority
NutritionOrder.priority
PlanDefinition.action.priority
ServiceRequest.priority
Task.priority
ActivityDefinition.priority
CommunicationRequest.priority
DeviceRequest.priority
RequestOrchestration.priority
RequestOrchestration.action.priority
VisionPrescription.priority
 


Issue:
 
If a downstream profile makes this elment mandatory ( i.e. min= 1 ), then it would be 
difficult for implementers to map to it if they had more/different priority levels.
 
Recommendation:
 
Change the binding to extensible
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55655
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Request Pattern
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/request-definitions.html#Request.priority
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Eric has indicated that he's comfortable with us rejecting this based on discussion in the comments and by Zulip.  However, will add the following to the 'comment' on Request.priority:

"Different systems, organizations, and/or jurisdictions may have differing business expectations around the same priority code.  For timing critical requests, it is best to make the timing requirement explicit in Request.effective[x] rather than relying on a priority code to indicate performance timing expectations."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Change Binding to Extensible
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55655

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/16/26
Security: Public

Extensible doesn't remove the need to map.  Implementers would still have to send the standard code if it applies to their desired priority level at any level of granularity, which would be most, if not all of the time.  If there's a need to convey more nuanced levels of priority, they can use extensions.  If we wanted to remove the need for implementers to map, then we'd have to go with 'preferred', which would mean there would be no interoperability on the element at all.

Can you give examples of situations where concepts that are truly 'priorities' can't be mapped to any of the standard codes?  (It's ok if multiple priorities map to the same globally-interoperable concept.)

### 2. Eric Haas - 3/17/26
Security: Public

We already experienced the trap when binding something like this too tightly in US Core with Location.type and it is a real pain in the ass to work around it.   So we Looked at other instances where some bindings could hamstring users and this one fits the bill.  It is easy to imagine a situation where there are more or less priorities than those listed. for example:

 

Immediate

Very Urgent

Urgent

Standard

Non-Urgent  

 

So it's not just a mapping issue, it's about anticipating the future needs of some hypothetical community that has more than 4 levels.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/17/26
Security: Public

They can have as many levels as they like - with extensible they'd still have to map to the four we've defined.  Because any code they have would fit into one of the existing definitions.  If an implementer has more levels than the defined value set, they'd have to map multiple levels to a single code.  If they have fewer, they wouldn't map certain levels (and on inbound data would map multiple levels to one of their supported codes.  They only way to avoid the problem would be to loosen the binding to 'preferred', which would mean no interoperability on priority at all, which is problematic.  Also, priority isn't required, so if you have something that's not mappable at all, you can always choose to not populate the element.

For the example you provided:
Immediate &lt;-&gt; STAT
Very Urgent &lt;-&gt; ASAP
Urgent &lt;-&gt; Urgent
Standard, Non-Urgent -&gt;routine (and send an extension if you want the receiver to be able to differentiate)

### 4. Eric Haas - 3/17/26
Security: Public

I am an implementer, and I want 5 levels, not 4.  With the required binding, you are screwed.  This logical model's binding is too restrictive in my opinion, because it is inherited by all the request resources and imposes a required binding on them.  

This issue is tangential to the 1..1 required-needs-an-other-or-unknown-one. If a am  community or implementer that wants to make the elelment min=1 for my use case then I am bound to these 4 codes without an escape hatch.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/17/26
Security: Public

You're not screwed.  You'll have to use an extension to convey your additional nuance.  However, that's a common thing.  The same as is true for gender, status, and other places where we lock codes down.  In fact, you're better off than for status, because in most cases with status, you don't have the ability to omit the element and therefore SHALL map.  With optional elements, it's always possible for an implementer to ignore and send an extension instead if mapping simply isn't feasible.  However, the reality is that in this case (as with gender), mapping is almost always going to be feasible, even if it doesn't let you maintain the level of specificity you want.  Greater specificity is what extensions are for.

If you choose to make the element 1..1 in a profile, the authors are saying "We want to be interoperable here and believe all our implementers can map to the set of codes defined".  In the vast majority of situations (including the example you provided), that'll be a reasonable statement.  If you don't believe your implementers can map to that set of codes, you won't make it 1..1.  In some cases, you might even do a 1..1 extension that takes a completely different approach to priority, though that would be questionable practice from an interoperability perspective.

### 6. Eric Haas - 3/18/26
Security: Public

So in US Core we should just throw the element Lccation.type away and roll our own because we don't use the extensible valueset they chose?

### 7. Eric Haas - 3/18/26
Security: Public

that is not very interoperable

### 8. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/18/26
Security: Public

Agree.  Which is why it's better to map yours to the standard one, and then send your own codes too if they convey more nuance that'll be relevant to at least some consumers.  Sending stuff in an extension and not populating the core element is technically legal, but it's exceptionally bad practice.  However, if you imagine a system that has an element they call "priority" and it has values of "1-day", "1-week", "1-month", and "whenever", it'd be reasonable to say "This doesn't map to the priority codes at all, so maybe even though we call this thing 'priority', it doesn't really correspond to the FHIR concept of priority, and really represents a distinct concept."  And in that case sending just the extension and not populating the priority element would be fine.

If you really want to argue for changing the 'priority' binding, you'd need to explain how the situation here is different from gender and status (because there are absolutely systems that want to convey more nuance for those concepts too, and we've so far said "suck it up, map, and supplement with an extension if you need to").

### 9. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/27/26
Security: Public

Eric confirmed in a private Zulip chat that he's ok with us voting this as Not Persuasive.

