# FHIR-46284: FML Grammar for target rules is inconsistent with the spec

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Gino Canessa to review
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 7/22/24
- **Created**: 7/3/24
- **Description**: There are 2 main issues, the evalurate shortcut fhirpath mode isn't in the grammar, and the context-less target is also not supported.

https://hl7.org/fhir/mapping-language.html#7.8.0.8.2

Existing:

 


ruleTarget
 : ruleContext ('=' transform)? alias? targetListMode?
 | invocation alias? // alias is not required when simply invoking a group
 ;


There are several examples where there is no ruleContext provided (and is intending just to use a fhirpath expression to put in a variabe (alias) for use in a dependent group.

Suggest updating to this:


ruleTarget
 : ruleContext ('=' transform)? alias? targetListMode?
 | transform alias? targetListMode?
 | invocation alias? // alias is not required when simply invoking a group
 ;

We could even omit the last line, as that would be covered by the transform anyway. 

 

 And also the transform rule updates to this (including the fhirpath shortcut):


transform
  : literal              // trivial constant transform
  | ruleContext          // 'copy' transform
  | invocation           // other named transforms
  | '(' fpExpression ')' // fhirpath based expressions
  ; 

All of this is already implemented in the HAPI JAVA Mapping engine (and has been for some time) https://github.com/hapifhir/org.hl7.fhir.core/blob/f47cbcb8673e7cdb9cd5ff9d5ba70847397b2e05/org.hl7.fhir.r5/src/main/java/org/hl7/fhir/r5/utils/structuremap/StructureMapUtilities.java#L1122

The text for the concrete syntax for the evaluate fhirpath shortcut is already in the spec, but there isn't anything indicating that the context is mandatory, or optional. (though the grammar suggests it is mandatory)

An example that uses this format is:


src.careTeam as vs where reference.resolve().exists() -&gt; (src.careTeam.reference.resolve()) as ct then plnParticipant(ct, tgt) "CarePlan-participant"; 

Which is from the cross version maps...

https://github.com/HL7/fhir-cross-version/blob/b631eaa5a258ccca5f50a0ea88d7cb938664414f/input/R3toR2/CarePlan.fml#L25
- **Grouping**: [MappingLanguage, WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46284
- **Related Page(s)**: Mapping Language
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/mapping-language.html#7.8.0.8.2
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: FML Grammar for target rules is inconsistent with the spec

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46284

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/22/24
Security: Public

Gino Canessa to review

