# FHIR-53914: Edits to the Signing Bundles sections

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/9/26
- **Description**: Note that it is not necessary to sign Bundles with embedded signatures like this - systems and/or ecosystems may choose to use enveloping signatures (JSON  , XML  ), where the the signed data is included within the signature itself, or make the Provenance resources avilable separately.
Update the Signing Bundles sections for clarity and readability:

 

Note 

	The term "enveloping signatures" is incorrect.  Enveloping signatures only has meaning for XMLDSig, because it describes structural relationships that are specific to XML's structure, but JWS and CMS have fundamentally different structures.
	Whether the signature is attached or detached is irrelevant this context.  Either one could be used, whether the Provenance resource is in the Bundle or not. 



 

Proposed text ( source: https://github.com/Healthedata1/fhir/blob/master/source/signatures.html )

 
Signing Bundles
 
The most common use of signatures in FHIR is to sign a Document Bundle and include the signature as a Bundle entry. In this approach, Provenance is used to carry a signature, which is added to the Bundle as an entry before or after the signature is created. Implementers may choose to make the Provenance resources available separately, rather than as a bundle entry. However, if the signature is being included in the Bundle, then the following rules SHALL be observed:

 

	Provenance is used to carry a signature




	Provenance.target.reference = "Bundle/&#91;id&#93;" where id is the id of the Bundle. In other words, the Bundle itself is being signed.




	There may be other Provenance resources in the Bundle that carry a signature. But if the Provenance.target.reference != "Bundle/&#91;id&#93;" They are not embedded signatures, and not subject to the rules documented here




	The Provenance resource SHALL have a Provenance.signature element for the Bundle signature.




	The Provenance resource is either:




	
	
		Added to the Bundle as a new entry after the signature is created.
		Removed before the signature is created, and updated and added back to the Bundle as a new entry after the signature is created.
		Signed as described below
	
	
	Provenance.target.reference can reference other resources in addition to its Bundle contents.




	
	
		To sign itself minus the Provenance.signature.data which holds the digital signature, the special target value "#" is used.
	
	




	
	
		To sign another Provenance signature entry in the Bundle, the target value target = fullUrl of the other Provenance entry is used. In such cases, the Provenance.signature.data is also signed.
	
	




	
	
		The target may not be in the Bundle; however, this specification does not define how such references are resolved.
	
	



 
 

The Bundle resource includes the Bundle.signature, element. Because of several unresolved issues with its use, the element is deprecated. Applications SHOULD use the method described above to sign Bundles and pre-adopt it when working with earlier versions of FHIR.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53914
- **Related Page(s)**: Signatures
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/signatures.html#Bundles
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Edits to the Signing Bundles sections
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53914

## Comments

_No comments in export._
