# FHIR-53492: Incorrect Regex for Decimal Datatype

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Benjamin Flessner
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This sat hidden in the wrong specification for awhile; reassigning to to FHIR-I (though I'm pretty sure the requirement of leading 0's in decimals has been a longstanding FHIR requirement, at least since R4 when I first see the RegeEx).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/20/25
- **Created**: 4/1/25
- **Description**: The regex specified for the decimal datatype is incorrect:

-?(0|&#91;1-9&#93;&#91;0-9&#93;{0,17})(\.&#91;0-9&#93;{1,17})?(&#91;eE&#93;&#91;+-&#93;?&#91;0-9&#93;{1,9)?}}

 

Proposed changes (highlighted in red):

-?(0|&#91;1-9&#93;&#91;0-9&#93;{0,17})?(\.&#91;0-9&#93;{1,17})?(&#91;eE&#93;&#91;+-&#93;?&#91;0-9&#93;{1,9}})?

 

	Make the first match group optional to handle decimals that start with a decimal point (eg. ".5").
	Remove the extra closing bracket } in the third match group.



 

Final:

-?(0|&#91;1-9&#93;&#91;0-9&#93;{0,17})?(\.&#91;0-9&#93;{1,17})?(&#91;eE&#93;&#91;+-&#93;?&#91;0-9&#93;{1,9})?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53492
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/datatypes.html#decimal
- **Reporter**: SeanTan
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: 1. We do not agree with the first proposed change that would allow for ".5" in addition to "0.5" ; the leading zero has been required since the normative datatype definitions were published and is expected by current implementations. We cannot make a substantive change to this requirement at this point in the lifecycle and we are not aware of any use cases that are blocked by the requirement for a leading zero.

2. *We agree to remove the extra closing bracket } *in the third match group. This is a correction of a syntax error.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Incorrect Regex for Decimal Datatype
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53492

## Comments

### 1. Benjamin Flessner - 11/20/25
Security: Public

This sat hidden in the wrong specification for awhile; reassigning to to FHIR-I (though I'm pretty sure the requirement of leading 0's in decimals has been a longstanding FHIR requirement, at least since R4 when I first see the RegeEx).

