# FHIR-54035: Add CMS signatures section to support existing infrastructure

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: Add CMS signatures section to support the existing infrastructure

	like my JWS proposal, focus on the FHIR content rather than the signature content.
 
Proposed Text before the JWS section (source at https://github.com/Healthedata1/fhir/blob/master/source/signatures.html)
 
CMS
 
When the digital signature is an RFC 5652: Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)  signature or a profile built upon it, such as CAdES (CMS Advanced Electronic Signature), the following guidelines and rules apply:


	Signature.type: This element SHOULD be populated with the codes from Signature Type Codes
	
		The Purpose can be the action being attested to or the role associated with the signature.
		It SHOULD agree with any "purpose" attribute in the CMS signature (for example, the "commitment-type-indication" attribute defined in the CadES profiles).
	
	
	Signature.when: This element SHOULD be populated with the signature timestamp.
	
		It SHOULD agree with the "signingTime" or "signatureTimeStamp" attributes in the CMS signature.
	
	
	Signature.who: This element SHOULD be populated with a Reference.reference or Reference.identifier of who signed the content.
	
		It SHOULD match the signer's identity found in the digital certificate. (for example, the Subject Name (SN), or one of the Subject Alternative Names (SAN&gt;) in an X.509 certificate)
	
	
	Signature.onBehalfOf: When applicable, this element SHOULD be populated with a Reference.reference or Reference.identifier of the party represented by the signer.
	Signature.targetFormat: This element SHOULD be populated, and the value SHOULD contain a canonicalization URL from one of those defined above or defined by other specifications.
	Signature.sigFormat: This element SHOULD be populated. with the value "application/pkcs7-signature" for CMS and CMS profiles.
	Signature.data: The base64 encoded DER or PEM formatted CMS signature.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54035
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Add CMS signatures section to support existing infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54035

## Comments

_No comments in export._
