# FHIR-32756: request-insurance extension needs more context given in the description

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Hans Buitendijk
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Jose Costa-Teixeira: Can you clarify why this extension was attached to NutrtitionOrder?  From FHIR-26526 it appears that you indicated it should be part of NutritionOrder, but the project team does not understand why.

We also note, and support Cooper's assertion that the definition and use are not clear and we suggest that the Pattern team reviews with FM the definition and provide clarification.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/11/22
- **Created**: 5/24/21
- **Description**: The description of the request-insurance extension isn't clear to me.  What does it mean? Some things I can think it could mean:

 

	It is providing an empty or partially populated Coverage that is expected to be populated and validated during check in?
	Is it providing a fully populated Coverage that is expected to be validated during check in?
	Is it just an informational Coverage for the purposes of triggering prior auth workflows?
	Is this Coverage only to be used for prior auth checks? Or also as a pre-populated coverage for validation at check-in?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-32756
- **Related Artifact(s)**: NutritionOrder
- **Related Page(s)**: Defining Extensions
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/extension-request-insurance.html
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will update:
{quote}
Insurance plans, coverage extensions, pre-authorizations and/or pre-determinations that may be relevant in delivering the requested service.
{quote}

to:
{quote}
The relevant insurance Coverage for this request to perform Eligibility checking, authorization, pre-determination or claiming for goods and/or services renderable or rendered, etc..

Responses from insurers (ClaimResponse) containing responses to prior authorization or pre-determination requests to guide in the choosing of goods and services informed by reimbursement guidance, and to provide authorization numbers which may need to be quoted on future claims for reimbursement.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: request-insurance extension needs more context given in the description
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-32756

## Comments

### 1. Hans Buitendijk - 5/11/22
Security: Public

Jose Costa-Teixeira: Can you clarify why this extension was attached to NutrtitionOrder?  From FHIR-26526 it appears that you indicated it should be part of NutritionOrder, but the project team does not understand why.

We also note, and support Cooper's assertion that the definition and use are not clear and we suggest that the Pattern team reviews with FM the definition and provide clarification.

### 2. Cooper Thompson - 9/20/22
Security: Public

Also, some appointments (or other services) may have multiple (ordered) coverages (i.e. primary/secondary) that would be billed.  Typically we would expect those to be ordered on an Account, so it might make sense to reference an Account as the "container" for the ordered coverages.

### 3. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 7/27/23
Security: Public

The extension was applied to NutritionOrder as it applies to request pattern. We can ask FM to clarify the granularity

### 4. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 11/20/23
Security: Public

This was part of a series of extensions that in principle applied to all resources following the Request pattern.

I agree the extension scope /intent are unclear and will ask FM to clarify.

### 5. Ulrike Merrick - 5/22/24
Security: Public

Jose Costa-Teixeira - did you get an answer from FM?

### 6. Lorraine Constable - 6/30/24
Security: Public

Can FM comment on this please? The nutrition team does not have the background for this ticket.

### 7. Paul Knapp - 1/30/25
Security: Public

FM has reviewed this extension and it appears to be reasonable for the use case and complete and appropriate in its structure.

We interpret the extension to support providing:

 - Coverage details should the party responsible for acting on the NutritionOrder need to perform Eligibility checking, authorization, pre-determination or claiming for goods and/or services renderable or rendered.


	Responses from insurers (ClaimResponse) containing responses to prior authorization or pre-determination requests to guide in the choosing of goods and services informed by reimbursement guidance, and to provide authorization numbers which may need to be quoted on future claims for reimbursement.

### 8. Lorraine Constable - 9/11/25
Security: Public

This extension is broader than NutritionOrder, it can also be used on CarePlan. The updated definition from Financial Management seems ok, but this should be moved to FHIR-I to review and apply the definition recommended by FM

### 9. Lorraine Constable - 9/11/25
Security: Public

This extension is broader than NutritionOrder, it can also be used on CarePlan. The updated definition from Financial Management seems ok to OO, but moving this ticket to FHIR-I since it owns the extension in the Request Pattern

