# FHIR-54053: Update MessageDefinition-related bullet point for CapabilityStatement

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: HaydenBader
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Accidentally submitted as highest priority. I would be fine with it being downgraded in terms of priority, but I do feel it is something that should be reviewed.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/12/26
- **Created**: 1/13/26
- **Description**: The CapabilityStatement notes section contains the following bullet point:

	The MessageDefinition resource is newly proposed and is still considered 'draft'. The supportedMessage element can be used in place of the event and the work group believes it may meet implementer needs better, however because the new mechanism has not yet been reviewed by ballot, the older 'event' mechanism has been retained. Implementers may use one or the other to define their capabilities. Feedback is welcome.



At the least, MessageDefinition is now moving to normative as part of R6, so that should be updated. However, this bullet point as a whole appears like it could use some attention for the upcoming version.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54053
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CapabilityStatement (Conformance)
- **Related Section(s)**: 5.3.5
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/capabilitystatement.html
- **Reporter**: HaydenBader
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will remove this whole section:
 * Messaging CapabilityStatement rules:
 ** The interpretation of request and response depends on the mode. If the mode is sender, then request specifies what the application sends, and response specifies what it accepts. If the mode is "receiver", then this is reversed
 ** If a request or response is not specified for an event, then no rules are made for it
 ** Events that are not listed are not supported
 ** The [MessageDefinition|https://build.fhir.org/messagedefinition.html] resource is newly proposed and is still considered 'draft'. The {{supportedMessage}} element can be used in place of the {{event}} and the work group believes it may meet implementer needs better, however because the new mechanism has not yet been reviewed by ballot, the older 'event' mechanism has been retained. Implementers may use one or the other to define their capabilities. Feedback is welcome.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Update MessageDefinition-related bullet point for CapabilityStatement
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54053

## Comments

### 1. HaydenBader - 1/12/26
Security: Public

Accidentally submitted as highest priority. I would be fine with it being downgraded in terms of priority, but I do feel it is something that should be reviewed.

