# FHIR-49012: Improved definition of copyright/copyrightlabel

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/12/25
- **Created**: 12/13/24
- **Description**: Consider the following improvements for the CanonicalResource:

for CanonicalResource.copyright 

change short definition to “intellectual property ownership, may include restrictions on use”
change definition to “A copyright statement relating to the Evidence and/or its contents. Copyright statements are legal notices of intellectual property ownership and may include restrictions on the use and publishing of the Evidence.”

for CanonicalResource.copyrightLabel 

correct the typo of resctricted. to restricted

In addition, suggest that these changes be rolled through all canonical resources in FHIR, given that this is the pattern for these elements.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49012
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CanonicalResource
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/canonicalresource-definitions.html#CanonicalResource.copyright
- **Reporter**: Bryn Rhodes
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: For {{CanonicalResource.copyright}}

change short definition from:
{quote}
Use and/or publishing restrictions
{quote}
to
{quote}
Notice about intellectual property ownership, can include restrictions on use
{quote}
 
change definition from:
{quote}
A copyright statement relating to the {{title}} and/or its contents. Copyright statements are generally legal restrictions on the use and publishing of the {{title}}.
{quote}
to:
{quote}
A copyright statement relating to the {{title}} and/or its contents. Copyright statements are notices of intellectual property ownership and can include restrictions on the use and publishing of the {{title}}.
{quote}

Update {{comments}} from:
{quote}
The short copyright declaration (e.g. (c) '2015+ xyz organization' should be sent in the copyrightLabel element.
{quote}
to:
{quote}
The short copyright declaration (e.g. (c) '2015+ xyz organization') should be sent in the copyrightLabel element without the copyright prefix (i.e., do not include '(c)' or the symbol).
{quote}

For {{CanonicalResource.copyrightLabel}}
In the {{definition}}, correct the typo of "resctricted" to "restricted".

Update the {{comments}}
from:
{quote}
The (c) symbol should NOT be included in this string. It will be added by software when rendering the notation. Full details about licensing, restrictions, warrantees, etc. goes in the more general 'copyright' element.
{quote}
to:
{quote}
The copyright symbol and the '(c)' textual representation SHOULD NOT be included in this string. It will be added by software when rendering the notation. Full details about licensing, restrictions, warrantees, etc. goes in the more general {{copyright}} element.
{quote}


We will update all resources that implement the {{CanonicalResource}} or {{MetadataResource}} interfaces, that contain the original text, to the new text.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Improved definition of copyright/copyrightlabel
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49012

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722

