# FHIR-50861: Async Pattern return type not always a bundle (particularly something like re-index)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Brian Postlethwaite, we believe that what should happen here is you get back a Bundle with no entries and a Bundle.issues with the OperationOutcome.  This keeps everything consistent.  Is there a good reason to make a breaking change here?

Grahame Grieve will start a Zulip discussion
- **Assignee**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Comments**: 7/14/25
- **Created**: 5/13/25
- **Description**: The "async interaction request" pattern includes the following text:

operation that re-indexes the data in a server to add a new search parameter. This pattern returns a Bundle Resource.

This is stating that this pattern returns a bundle resource.

An operation that re-indexes data isn't going to return a bundle resource containing all the re-indexed data, it's just going to contain an OperationOutcome indicating that the content is complete.

This came up while reviewing the patient $merge operation which returns a Parameters resource, and optionally a reference to a Task resource (which is the contentious part).

This feels like there is a 3rd pattern of async required, where the operation itself is async in nature, and doesn't require or even use the prefer header.

However the other point of using the content-location header could be useful there too.

	Content-Location header with the absolute URL of an endpoint for subsequent status requests (polling location)
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50861
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Async Pattern return type not always a bundle (particularly something like re-index)

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50861

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/14/25
Security: Public

Brian Postlethwaite, we believe that what should happen here is you get back a Bundle with no entries and a Bundle.issues with the OperationOutcome.  This keeps everything consistent.  Is there a good reason to make a breaking change here?

Grahame Grieve will start a Zulip discussion

### 2. Gino Canessa - 9/18/25
Security: Public

I believe it is this thread: #implementers &gt; Async interaction pattern

### 3. Josh Mandel - 10/27/25
Security: Public

Propose bringing https://hackmd.io/@jmandel/async-pattern-simplified content into the new API Incubator IG as the next iteration of async response pattern

### 4. Josh Mandel - 11/3/25
Security: Public

See attachment.

