# FHIR-49304: Event pattern is behind

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: FHIR-I would like PA's feedback on the proposed disposition to verify that our assertions about what actors are allowed to do what aligns with PA's notions.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 1/20/25
- **Created**: 1/15/25
- **Description**: It has come to our attention in a zulip chat

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179256-Orders-and-Observation-WG/topic/HealthcareService.20as.20a.20participant

 

That HealthcareService can be a performer. This has been updated in Request Pattern, but Event pattern is behind. Thus one could not use HealthcareService in an Event.

Further the list of agent resources is unclear. The Workflow pages should explain which resources have agency.
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49304
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Event Pattern
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add HealthCareService as a performer in the Event pattern

We will add a section to the workflow page titled "Actors in Workflow" with the following content:

"FHIR defines a range of resources that can participate in activity resources - as requesters, performers, etc.  There are guidelines about what types of resources can participate in which ways:
 * Person cannot ever be a participant (always use Patient, Practitioner, PractitionerRole, or RelatedPerson)
 * Group can be a participant but typically cannot take responsibility.  One exception is if the Group represents a family or household - families and households are permitted to be performers and requesters.  Groups of practitioners *cannot* take responsibility - use CareTeam, HealthcareService or Organization instead.
 * Location cannot be a requester or performer (use CareTeam, HealthcareService, or Organization instead)
 * Endpoint cannot be a requester or performer (use Device, HealthcareService, or Organization)
 * CareTeam, Device, DeviceDefinition, HealthcareService, Patient, Practitioner, PractitionerRole, RelatedPerson, and Organization can all be actors and take responsibility for actions (though there may be business rules about what types of actors are allowed to take on certain roles in certain contexts).
 * BiologicallyDerivedProduct, InventoryItem, Medication, NutritionProduct, Specimen, and Substance can participate as consumables or focuses but cannot have responsibility.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Event pattern is behind
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49304

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

FHIR-I would like PA's feedback on the proposed disposition to verify that our assertions about what actors are allowed to do what aligns with PA's notions.

### 2. Reinhard Egelkraut - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Outcome of the PA WGM January 2025 Meeting Monday Q2:

PA is fine with the proposed disposition.

### 3. John Moehrke - 1/27/25
Security: Public

thanks

