# FHIR-57266: Revise wording at profiling recursive elements

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: TimPrudhomme
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Just to clarify: Would this behavior also apply to ElementDefinitions in the base spec? Or is it only for profiles?
In other words, would this mean that Questionnaire.item.item no longer has min 1 "linkId", or max 1 "text"? 
Or would the base Questionnaire.item.item keep all the same constraints as the base Questionnaire.item?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/17/26
- **Created**: 5/17/26
- **Description**: On the profiling page, it says:

&gt; Some backbone elements recurse. e.g., Questionnaire.item. When a profile defines constraints on such elements, the constraints apply to the recursive references to those elements as well. i.e., If Questionnaire.item is constrained to have a type of 'group', that will cause Questionnaire.item.item, Questionnaire.item.item.item, etc. to all have the same constraint. If there is a need to enforce constraints on a recursive item that apply at some levels but not others (e.g., only the root, or everything except the root), formal constraints using FHIRPath can be used that limit their behavior to only the root or other specific levels of nesting can be used.

This text is a problem - check the IPS profile on Composition. This is a common thing to want to do, and would be awful and difficult to work with if we could only do that with invariants. 

We should rewrite this section, and depend on the extension defined in FHIR-57265. Proposed draft:

Some backbone elements recurse. e.g., Questionnaire.item, or have the same content as another item e.g. ValueSet.compose.exclude has the same content as ValueSet.compose.include. When a profile defines constraints on such elements, the constraints only apply to the literally stated path on the element. If it is desired to apply constraints to element that has a content reference, profiles can either constrain them directly, or use the &#91;contentReferenceProfile&#93;() extension apply the constraints from an applicable element (e.g. one that has the same value for contentReference) from either the same profile or a different profile

As an example, If Questionnaire.item is constrained to have a type of 'group', and Questionnaire.item.item says that the profile applied to Questionnaire.item applies, then   that will constrain type to 'group'. And because Questionnaire.item.item refers back to Questionnaire.item, this is a recursive structure.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57266
- **Related Page(s)**: Profiling
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Revise wording at profiling recursive elements
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57266

## Comments

### 1. TimPrudhomme - 5/17/26
Security: Public

Just to clarify: Would this behavior also apply to ElementDefinitions in the base spec? Or is it only for profiles?
In other words, would this mean that Questionnaire.item.item no longer has min 1 "linkId", or max 1 "text"? 
Or would the base Questionnaire.item.item keep all the same constraints as the base Questionnaire.item?

