# FHIR-53909: How do reference search params interact with the alternate-reference extension?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Created**: 1/9/26
- **Description**: https://build.fhir.org/references.html#additional explains how to use the "alternate-reference" extension to link to an Additional Resource when it's not a defined target for that reference field.

It's unclear to me if/how this interacts with search parameters.

 

For example, say I'm populating Observation.basedOn with the "alternate-reference" extension in order to reference some new Additional Resource with FHIR ID 123.

How does searching on /Observation?based-on=123 work?

To me, the intuitive behavior (from a usability perspective) would be to match on FHIR IDs in the "alternate-reference" extension as well as the normal reference field. Otherwise, each Additional Resource would need to define new search parameters for themselves, which quickly gets messy.

However, there's no technical guidance on if this is the right behavior, so I wouldn't expect all servers to implement it that way (especially "pure" FHIR servers operating off SearchParameter FHIRPath expressions).

 

If the intent is for servers to perform the intuitive matching behavior above, then the search.html section for references should be updated to explain that. 

 

If that's not the intent, then there should be guidance somewhere on if/how Additional Resources IGs should handle existing reference search params.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53909
- **Related Page(s)**: References

Search
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/search.html#reference
- **Reporter**: James Jahns
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: In the search page section that deals with the 'reference' search type, we will add the following note:

"Instead of Reference.reference, some elements might instead contain the [additionalReference]() extension.  Systems SHOULD support indexing and searching against content found in this extension as well unless there are constraints in place that ensure that additionalReference is never present."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: How do reference search params interact with the alternate-reference extension?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53909

## Comments

_No comments in export._
