# FHIR-46495: Consider describing administratively created subscriptions

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Created**: 7/29/24
- **Description**: Request to synchronize features from the Backport IG into R6.

In FHIR-43505, the request was made to clearly describe two 'modes' of subscriptions - Dynamic (client managed) and Administrative (server / third party managed).

Request adding the same documentation and descriptions to R6.  Note that documentation should include changes based on FHIR-43514 for conformance requirements.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46495
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Subscription
- **Related Page(s)**: Subscriptions Framework
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Per changes made to the Backport IG, describe the two 'styles' of subscriptions - {{In-band managed}} (client-managed) and {{Out-of-band managed}} (server-managed).

Update the documentation on the {{Subscriptions Framework}} page to include the two styles of subscriptions:
* Update the {{Workflow Overview}} to describe each type.
* Add a new section under {{Subscriptions}} describing each.
* Update {{Conformance}} to describe the requirements for each
* Update {{Managing Subscriptions and Errors}} to highlight the different responsibilities in each scenario

Update the documentation in the {{Subscription}} resource to include the two styles:
* Update {{Scope and Usage}} to remove expectation that the {{subscriber}} is creating the subscription.
* Update {{Managing Subscriptions and Errors}} to link back to the {{Subscriptions Framework}} page
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Consider describing administratively created subscriptions
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46495

## Comments

_No comments in export._
