# FHIR-41357: $validate is underspecified and the specification contains errors

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/31/23
- **Description**: $validate can operate either on a specific resource, or resource type.

The specification says the "resource" parameter must be present unless the mode is delete.

	If the mode is "delete", and the target is a resource type, what is validated?
	If the mode is "profile", and the target is a resource instance, what is the purpose of the "resource" parameter?
	If the mode is "profile", and the target is a resource type, why isn't a "resource" permitted? (see Resource Validation Mode value set.)
	Is a profile permitted for create, update, delete modes?
	If the mode is "create" can the target be a resource instance?
	etc.



A review should be done of all combinations of validation target (resource type or instance); presence of "resource" and "profile" parameters; and mode parameter setting, or absence (40 combinations?) to ensure that the existing narrative, parameter text, and code definitions are actually correct and sufficient. Particular care should be given to the difference in the role of the "resource" parameter in instance vs type validation.

A first crack at such a table is at https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Validate.20operation.

Consideration should be given to whether is would be beneficial to define two operations – validate-type and validate-instance – both invoked by $validate, with appropriately tailored parameters and modes.

Note that FHIR-41356 proposes also adding &#91;base&#93;/$validate, and if accepted, the analysis should be extended appropriately.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41357
- **Related Artifact(s)**: OperationDefinition
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/resource-operation-validate.html
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: > validate can operate either on a specific resource, or resource type.

The specification says the "resource" parameter must be present unless the mode is delete.

> If the mode is "delete", and the target is a resource type, what is validated?

Spec already says "Modes update and delete can only be used when the operation is invoked at the resource instance level"

> If the mode is "profile", and the target is a resource instance, what is the purpose of the "resource" parameter?

We should update the specification to relax 'Must be present unless the mode is "delete"' to read 'Must be present unless the mode is "delete" or the operation is invoked at the instance level'. We'd still allow a resource to be supplied when invoking at the instance level; the semantics here are "is this resource valid {*}for this id{*}; because business rules can apply."

> If the mode is "profile", and the target is a resource type, why isn't a "resource" permitted? (see Resource Validation Mode value set.)

In [https://build.fhir.org/valueset-resource-validation-mode.html] we will remove the following parenthetical: "(must be nominated by id, not provided as a parameter)".

> Is a profile permitted for create, update, delete modes?

Yes. We can add a note to this effect.

> If the mode is "create" can the target be a resource instance?

No. Create cannot be invoked at the instance level. We will add a note to this effect.

> etc.

Etc.

> A review should be done of all combinations of validation target (resource type or instance); presence of "resource" and "profile" parameters; and mode parameter setting, or absence (40 combinations?) to ensure that the existing narrative, parameter text, and code definitions are actually correct and sufficient. Particular care should be given to the difference in the role of the "resource" parameter in instance vs type validation.

> A first crack at such a table is at [https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Validate.20operation.]

> Note that FHIR-41356 proposes also adding [base]/$validate, and if accepted, the analysis should be extended appropriately.

A table like this would be useful, but indeed needs to be reconciled in a way that accounts for the disposition on https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41356 . We will add such a table.

 

> Consideration should be given to whether is would be beneficial to define two operations – validate-type and validate-instance – both invoked by $validate, with appropriately tailored parameters and modes.

We will evaluate whether separate definitions (one at the system/type level, another at the instance level) could be represented without impacting client code.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: $validate is underspecified and the specification contains errors
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41357

## Comments

_No comments in export._
