# FHIR-52816: The term Electronic Signature is confusing

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I am not against this change. But in the term "electronic signature" is a recognized term for a computer controlled signature that is not a digital-signature
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_signature
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/9/25
- **Created**: 9/9/25
- **Description**: The signature can either be an electronic signature (e.g. an image of an ink signature), or a digital signature (cryptographic proof that the content has not changed), and in the case of a digital signature, either a JWS signature or an XML Digital Signature.
should be
The signature can either be an electronic signature (e.g. an image of an ink signature), or a digital signature (cryptographic proof that the content has not changed), and in the case of a digital signature, either a JWS signature or an XML Digital Signature.
as the term electronic signature is confusing can also refer to signing with public-key encryption.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52816
- **Related Page(s)**: Signatures
- **Related Section(s)**: 6.1.2
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/signatures.html#Bundles
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: The term Electronic Signature is confusing

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52816

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 9/9/25
Security: Public

I am not against this change. But in the term "electronic signature" is a recognized term for a computer controlled signature that is not a digital-signature
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_signature

### 2. EssienGe - 9/10/25
Security: Public

Hi John Moehrke ,

In my understanding, It seems electronic signature concept is focus on the condition that the signature is in digital format and have same legal standing as handwriting signature, it may or may not be implemented based on digital signature. As also mentioned in the Wikipedia page you referred to, "Electronic signatures are a legal concept distinct from digital signatures, a cryptographic mechanism often used to implement electronic signatures. "

Besides, we are proposing this because in FHIR now XAdES/JAdES are recommended as digital signature format, while AdES here is short for Advanced electronic signature defined in EU 910/2014( also mentioned in the Wikipedia page). As a result, it may cause confusing to readers that we are using electronic signature refer to image of ink signature while at the same time we recommend use an electronic signature (AdES) as the format of digital signature.

### 3. Eric Haas - 9/24/25
Security: Public

A digital signature is a type of electronic signature.  So I support the change.

