# FHIR-45284: Interfaces and elements with matching names

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Medication Knowledge wasn't defined properly. Fixed that.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/26/25
- **Created**: 4/15/24
- **Description**: During processing of interface definitions, I discovered that the MedicationKnowledge resource (belongs to Pharmacy WG) uses some interface elements in a way that, I believe should not be allowed.

Specifically:

	MedicationKnowledge.author (ResourceReference) is incompatible with IMetadataResource.author (List&lt;Hl7.Fhir.Model.ContactDetail&gt;) and
	MedicationKnowledge.status (MedicationKnowledgeStatusCodes) is incompatible with ICanonicalResource.status (PublicationStatus)



However, I am not sure if the text at Interface definition is clear on this.

Add Additional text on the UML page to clarify these cases and tooling revision to prevent them (I can file a ticket against MedicationKnowledge for Pharmacy in that case as well).

Thanks!
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45284
- **Related Artifact(s)**: MetadataResource

MedicationKnowledge
- **Related Page(s)**: UML definition
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Make changes proposed
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Interfaces and elements with matching names
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45284

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 2/26/25
Security: Public

Medication Knowledge wasn't defined properly. Fixed that.

