# FHIR-49968: Are Expression.reference and Expression.expression interdependent?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I always thought that "reference" if present would be a reference to a Library where the expression could be found, so I think the comment on the "reference" element is wrong, and should be clarified to "A reference to a library in which the expression can be found". We're adding similar language to the Using CQL With FHIR IG to clarify use of the reference element there:

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49976
- **Assignee**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Comments**: 3/12/25
- **Created**: 3/7/25
- **Description**: Expression.expression has a comment saying: "If Expression.expression and Expression.reference are both present, the Expression.expression might just be a name pointing something within the referenced content."

while Expression.reference has a comment saying "If both a reference and an expression is found, the reference SHALL point to the same expression."

This is conflicting.  Is the intention that the reference points to the expression, or does the reference qualify a location specified by the expression?  It can't be both.

The definition of "reference" isn't clear: A URI that defines where the expression is found.

 

However, given that it's valid to have a reference on its own (there's an invariant that says you must have at least one or the other), then the expectation in that case would have to be that the reference must point to the actual expression.  It couldn't just point to the Library.

Furthermore, the meaning of 'reference' shouldn't change whether the expression is or isn't present.

I believe that means that the comment on Expression.expression is wrong.  However, I know there are implementations that rely on this behavior, so 'fixing' it is going to be painful.  We definitely can't leave it in its current conflicting state.

Brenin Rhodes Bryn Rhodes
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49968
- **Related Page(s)**: Metadata Types
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Are Expression.reference and Expression.expression interdependent?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49968

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 3/12/25
Security: Public

I always thought that "reference" if present would be a reference to a Library where the expression could be found, so I think the comment on the "reference" element is wrong, and should be clarified to "A reference to a library in which the expression can be found". We're adding similar language to the Using CQL With FHIR IG to clarify use of the reference element there:

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49976

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/12/25
Security: Public

Several problems with that:

	Right now, you can send 'reference' by itself without expression at all.  For your interpretation to hold, we'd have to change that to say that expression is mandatory if reference is present.  
	It means the meaning of 'expression' changes depending on whether or not reference is present.  That adds complexity, and it's not clear why it's justified
	It would also make Expression inconsistent with similar structures like Attachment.  



Given that reference is fully capable of pointing to the expression on its own (using '#'), it's not clear why we'd want to make reference have to use two separate elements.

### 3. Bryn Rhodes - 3/12/25
Security: Public

How does reference point to an expression? Are there implementations that currently use the reference element in that way?

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/12/25
Security: Public

It would have been reasonable for them to use the approach of http://some.canonical.org/Library/foo#expression-name.  (Or even http://some.canonical.org/Library/foo|version#expression-name.) Whether anyone has does this or not, I don't know.  But the existing language as well as our behavior about pointing to elements everywhere else in FHIR could reasonably have led to this approach.  (Obviously if you use spaces in your expression name, they'd have to be escaped in the reference, but that's not hard.)

### 5. Bryn Rhodes - 3/12/25
Security: Public

I'm not aware of any implementations that have actually done this, though I'm not opposed to supporting it, so long as in doing so we don't break what people are already doing, which is that the reference, if present, is "where the expression can be found". This statement is true of library references, even if they aren't unique references. I think the inconsistency is with the statement on reference that it SHALL point to the same expression, but I think we can clarify that to say that if the reference identifies a specific expression within a library, it SHALL be the same expression.

If we do that, and explain that reference can be to just a library, or using the fragment identifier, a reference to an expression within a library, then we can continue to support both.

I don't see how having a reference changes the meaning of the expression though?

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/12/25
Security: Public

In one, it's expression text.  In the other, it's just a label and you can't find it except by using the reference.  If we were designing this from scratch, we would never have said to use the same element for both purposes.  If it's our belief that the horses left the barn long ago and we must continue supporting this approach, then we need to update the element to be clear what it is. 

expression

short description: "Expression in specified language" -&gt; "Expression in specified language or expression name"

definition: "An expression in the specified language that returns a value." -&gt; "This element is used for two different purposes.  If present with no reference, this indicates the computable expression in the specified language that will return a value.  If present with a reference, this identifies a name of the expression/function/operation to invoke within the referenced content."

comment: "If Expression.expression and Expression.reference are both present, the Expression.expression might just be a name pointing something within the referenced content." -&gt; remove

reference

short description: "Where the expression is found" - this is fine, no change needed

definition: "A URI that defines where the expression is found." -&gt; "If specified on its own, this is a URI that resolves to the specific expression to execute to return a value.  If specified with an expression, this is a URI that resolves to a collection of code in the specified language within which can be found a named expression/function/operation/etc. with the name specified in 'expression' that can be executed to return a value."

comment: "If both a reference and an expression is found, the reference SHALL point to the same expression." -&gt; remove

 

I think this is awkward design, but I can live with it so long as we make these clarifications.  It does mean that you can't convey both the expression content and a pointer to the same content from some original source (the way we can have both data and ref in Attachment).  I don't know that that's a critical use-case, but it's one this solution now makes impossible.

### 7. Bryn Rhodes - 3/17/25
Security: Public

The reason most implementations (maybe all) didn't interpret "reference" this way is because it's called "reference" and implementations treat that like any other reference (i.e. pointer to a resource). If we want the element to be interpreted as a "reference + element path", we should state that in the definition. I think instead, we should accept that this is how implementations have built this functionality and change "uri" to "canonical" and remove the comments and invariant implying that reference can point to an expression, why do we need that if no systems are using it that way?

### 8. Bryn Rhodes - 3/17/25
Security: Public

Nevertheless, I've proposed a disposition with the changes you've suggested, I think this works and allows both approaches.

### 9. Gino Canessa - 4/7/25
Security: Public

Per request - there is going to be further discussion in SDC that should be considered.

