# FHIR-36651: Define a "term-filter" modifier on type "token"

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We should encourage people to use the facilities that already exist rather then defining new ones that no one can implement (see comments in thread)
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 3/30/22
- **Created**: 3/28/22
- **Description**: Today, valueset definitions have the ability to select concepts based on properties and other filters... but there's no way to directly query for clinical data like

	"All medication prescriptions where the .code has an official designation matching 'tylenol'"
	"All medication prescriptions where the .code is a concept with an "RXTERM_FORM" property matching "Tab"



In the absence of these capabilities, IG authors are resorting to the use of additional FHIR resources just to support terminology-based search – e.g., see http://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/davinci-pdex-formulary/use_cases_and_overview.html#searching-by-drug-name which creates a MedicationKnowledge resource specifically to serve as a search index by designation. This does not scale well, since each IG would need to identify different "cache" resources for terminology properties, and definitions will overlap. We'd do better to expose terminology data more directly in searches, rather than creating new FHIR resources to act as go-betweens.

 

Proposal: add a ":term-filter" modifier on the "token" search parameter type, where the value is a "&#91;filterName&#93;|&#91;operation&#93;|&#91;value&#93;" three-tuple with the same semantics as https://build.fhir.org/valueset-definitions.html#ValueSet.compose.include.filter. For example: "designation|regex|Tylenol" or "RXTERM_FORM|=|Tab" to meet the use cases from the DaVinci Drug Formulary IG.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-36651
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Josh Mandel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Define a "term-filter" modifier on type "token"

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-36651

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 3/30/22
Security: Public

We should encourage people to use the facilities that already exist rather then defining new ones that no one can implement (see comments in thread)

### 2. Josh Mandel - 3/30/22
Security: Public

The question is what gets surfaced to the querying systems that are (say) looking for prescriptions or formulary items. I'm not sure what "facilities that already exist" can answer these questions. Using the two example queries I listed in the issue description, can you clarify what you mean?

### 3. Grahame Grieve - 5/5/22
Security: Public

Outcome of discussion at May 2022 Connectathon:

 

1) define a URL-friendly syntax for ValueSet.compose
(1a) use a subset/variant of ECL since that’s a “known” syntax
(2) define a way to extend SearchParameter to define what terminology capabilities are available in the search parameter
(3) document the approach Michael suggests for modular implementation (Brian Postlethwaite has been documenting this approach)

### 4. Peter Jordan - 5/5/22
Security: Public

FYI this is how SNOMED International has implemented description/term filters in ECL...

https://confluence.ihtsdotools.org/display/DOCECL/6.8+Description+Filters

### 5. Josh Mandel - 5/9/22
Security: Public

Assigning to you specifically re: proposing syntax for implicit values sets &#8211; kick it back when that's ready? (Note that the actual plan is in the comments, not my original submission text).

### 6. Michael Lawley - 5/30/23
Security: Public

I'll be speaking on a proposal for this at DevDays (Thu 11:40)

https://whova.com/embedded/session/mkGzezDgjAsoF3XZ6QNcwWSoj4VO6ShJhLbBT4-uPVE%3D/2975181/

The ANTLR grammar looks like this:

vQuery          : expr EOF ;
expr            : disjunctionExpr | exclusionExpr | simpleExpr ;
disjunctionExpr : simpleExpr (or simpleExpr)+ ;
exclusionExpr   : simpleExpr minus simpleExpr ;
simpleExpr
    : (STAR | conceptExpr)
    | (STAR | conceptExpr) COLON constraint
    | constraint
    ;

propNav     : (dot name)+ ;
propPath    : (name dot)+ ;
constraint  : valueConstraint (and valueConstraint)* ;
valueConstraint : propPath? ( simpleAttr | existsAttr | regexAttr | inAttr ) ;
simpleAttr  : name EQ value ;
existsAttr  : name EXISTS EQ (TRUE | FALSE) ;
regexAttr   : name REGEX EQ STRING_VALUE ;
inAttr      : name (IN|NOT_IN) EQ ( codelist | uri ) ;
value       : bool | code | conceptExpr | number | str ;
codelist    : OPEN_ROUND code (COMMA code)* CLOSE_ROUND ;
uri         : URI ;
name        : NAME | NUMBER | STAR ;
bool        : TRUE | FALSE ;
code        : CODE | NAME | NUMBER ;
number      : NUMBER ;
str         : STRING_VALUE ;
or          : SEMI ;
and         : COMMA ;
minus       : MINUS ;
dot         : DOT ;
conceptExpr : (DESCENDANT_OR_SELF_OF | LT | GT | ANCESTOR_OR_SELF_OF)? ( code | OPEN_ROUND expr CLOSE_ROUND ) propNav? ;

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Michael Lawley, this proposal needs to be reconciled with ValueSet.compose.  I.e. the search syntax cannot support anything that can't be expressed in ValueSet.compose.  (It's ok if ValueSet.compose allows rules that aren't covered here.)  Please work with Terminology Infrastructure to bring the proposed expression syntax and ValueSet.compose syntax into alignment.

### 8. Michael Lawley - 9/15/23
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie I don't think anything is needed here?  If I understand what you're asking and what Grahame is mentioning as item 2, then as long as we have defined a general purpose approach to implicit ValueSets that use VCL, then the existing search mechanism using the :in and :not-in modifiers will "just work".

For example: 

	"All medication prescriptions where the .code is a concept with an "RXTERM_FORM" property matching "Tab"



Would be something like:

MedicationRequest?_search=medication:in=http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/rxnorm?vcl=RXTERM_FORM=Tab

(Except that I don't know how to "token-search" on a CodeableReference, which is what "medication" is.)

### 9. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/15/23
Security: Public

My comment was just relaying statements from Grahame Grieve on the call.  I think the issue was that we didn't want VCL (or at least the subset we allow) to support anything that couldn't be stated in ValueSet compose.  However, I'll leave it to him to respond.

### 10. Michael Lawley - 1/29/24
Security: Public

A key feature that gives VCL real utility is "property navigation". That is, the ability to, for example, get all the substances that a set of medications contains.  Only a small subset of CodeSystems actually define reverse properties (e.g., something like is_ingredient_of as the reverse of has_ingredient).

I would propose that just as there is an implicit filter, '{prop}', for every CodeSystem property '{prop}', for code and Coding-typed properties there should also be an implicit filter 'from.{prop}'

Hence, while the following matches all drugs containing codeine:

"compose": {"include":[{
  "property": "has_ingredient",
  "op": "=",
  "value": "codeine",
}]

this would match all substances in the drugs that are non-steroidal into-inflammatories

"compose": {"include":[{
  "property": "from.has_ingredient",
  "op": "is-a",
  "value": "NSAID",
}]

This capability would then support the propNav aspect of the VCL proposal above.

### 11. Carmela A. Couderc - 4/18/24
Security: Public

Reuben Daniels It seems as though this should be a TI ticket - do you agree? FYI: Jessica Bota Robert Hausam Marc Duteau Caroline Macumber

### 12. Josh Mandel - 4/18/24
Security: Public

Makes sense to me

### 13. Carmela A. Couderc - 12/23/24
Security: Public

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mC5r6Fu-y9w

### 14. Michael Lawley - 9/5/25
Security: Public

The VCL proposal is now codified here: https://build.fhir.org/ig/FHIR/ig-guidance/vcl.html

There are two pieces missing from this at the moment:

	Documentation of the syntax for implicit ValueSets that use VCL
	A proposal for a new well-known filter property "vcl" with the op "=" that takes a VCL expresssion as its value



Note that 2 is not strictly necessary since you can always do the equivalent of 2 with compose.include.valueSet and a VCL implicit ValueSet.

### 15. Josh Mandel - 11/24/25
Security: Public

Michael Lawley should we leave this open &#8211; do you anticipate these changes will land in VCL to obviate the need for a term-filter modifier?

### 16. Michael Lawley - 12/5/25
Security: Public

We need to keep this open.  The designation matching aspect is not yet addressed by ValueSet.compose / VCL

### 17. Michael Lawley - 12/5/25
Security: Public

After discussion with Grahame, I'd like to propose the well-known "designation" property - i.e., an addition to the http://hl7.org/fhir/concept-properties CodeSystem.

The ValueSet.compose.include.filter.operator "=" would then interpret the ValueSet.compose.include.filter.value as a case-insensitive wildcard match, where '*' MUST be explicitly specified; this allows for full string match (anchored to beginning and end).

When used in ValueSet.compose.include.filter.property there are several optional modifiers for constraining the designation values:

	For designation.use, you can specify system#code (system is optional, '#" is required)
	For designation.language, you can specify a language-range (per RFC 4647) preceded by an @



Examples:

	designation = "tylenol"
	designation:|preferredForLanguauge = "tylenol"
	designation:http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/hl7TermMaintInfra|preferredForLanguage = "tylenol"
	designation:@en,en-* = "tylenol"
	designation:http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/hl7TermMaintInfra|preferredForLanguage@en = "tylenol"
	designation = "tylenol"

### 18. Michael Lawley - 12/5/25
Security: Public

Note that the bold faced tylenol terms above are actually "&#42;tylenol&#42;" as in:


	designation = "&#42;tylenol&#42;"
	designation:|preferredForLanguauge = "&#42;tylenol&#42;"
	designation:http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/hl7TermMaintInfra|preferredForLanguage = "&#42;tylenol&#42;"
	designation:@en,en-* = "&#42;tylenol&#42;"
	designation:http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/hl7TermMaintInfra|preferredForLanguage@en = "&#42;tylenol&#42;"
	designation = "tylenol"

### 19. Michael Lawley - 12/8/25
Security: Public

See new comment regarding designation filter.

