# FHIR-50580: Clarify relationship between Obligations and mustSupport

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/1/25
- **Description**: "

If an element is labelled as "must-support", the element can specify the obligations associated with its use by providing one or more obligations using the Obligation Extension. "

This sentence is unclear to me in terms of the relationship between mustSupport and Obligation Extensions. There should be clearer guidance for the sake of consistent usage across IGs.

When an Obligation Extension is used, is it a MAY, SHOULD, or SHALL that the mustSupport flag is also set?

Similar ambiguity exists here (emphasis mine): https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/elementdefinition.html#must-support

"

Element Definitions use the property mustSupport to indicate that there are rules that apply to how the data is handled. In addition, the Obligation Extension extension can be used to make more detailed statements about application behavior.

"
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50580
- **Related Page(s)**: ElementDefinition

Obligations
- **Related Section(s)**: 5.2.2, 2.1.28.6.0.4.8
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/obligations.html
- **Reporter**: James Jahns
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add a paragraph to this section: [https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/obligations.html#obligations]

 

It will say:

"If an element has obligations, it SHOULD also set the mustSupport flag to true.  However, in some cases, legacy interpretation of the meaning of mustSupport makes making the flag true problematic.  If an element with obligations has the mustSupport flag left as false, the mustSupport documentation of that profile or IG SHOULD document the rationale for the discrepancy."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify relationship between Obligations and mustSupport
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50580

## Comments

_No comments in export._
