# FHIR-48421: Basic should define a pattern for custom search parameters

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussion from FHIR-I

&gt; There should be guidance to assure that these custom search parameters are clearly distinct to that custom resource definitiion.

If my Basic has "code" of 
{"system": "foo", "code": "bar"}

SP might be have an indexing expression like:
Basic.where(code.exists(system = "foo", code = "bar")).extension('http://my-identifier-property')

... but the question here becomes: what url-param-name do we give it to avoid conflicts?

We could write up guidance for this, e.g. incorporating the system + code into the short name. like "foo-bar-identifier"
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/4/24
- **Created**: 9/26/24
- **Description**: Basic resource is intended for custom resource definition. As such there is a need for the profiler of basic for their custom resource to define search parameters for their custom resource. There should be guidance to assure that these custom search parameters are clearly distinct to that custom resource definitiion.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48421
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Basic
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/basic.html
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: On 'Basic', will add the following to the 'notes' section:

"{*}Search Parameters against Basic{*}

Custom [SearchParameters]() can be defined against a Basic resource in the same manner as any other resource.  However, because of the wide range of contents that can be conveyed via Basic, the opportunity for collisions in the naming of search parameters is higher.  While collisions CAN be resolved using the standard mechanism, best practice is for search parameter names to include the "resource concept" the Basic instance represents as a prefix.  For example, rather than defining a search parameter called "effectiveDate", it would be better to have the search parameter code be "ApplicationRenewal-effectiveDate" if the extension being searched is defined on a Basic profile intended to represent the concept of "application renewals".  This same convention would be used if using Basic to represent resources using inter-version conversion.  For example, a Basic search parameter might be coded as "PersonalRelationship-source" rather than just "source".

"
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Basic should define a pattern for custom search parameters
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48421

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 11/4/24
Security: Public

Discussion from FHIR-I

&gt; There should be guidance to assure that these custom search parameters are clearly distinct to that custom resource definitiion.

If my Basic has "code" of 
{"system": "foo", "code": "bar"}

SP might be have an indexing expression like:
Basic.where(code.exists(system = "foo", code = "bar")).extension('http://my-identifier-property')

... but the question here becomes: what url-param-name do we give it to avoid conflicts?

We could write up guidance for this, e.g. incorporating the system + code into the short name. like "foo-bar-identifier"

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

