# FHIR-52745: Choice Orientation extension should allow all choice types

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Inclination is to remove the context invariant entirely.  With the answerExpression data type, it's possible to have a list of candidate answers for any of the allowed answer types, and if you have a list of candidate answers, you might reasonably want to specify the preferred orientation of the list.  Leaving the issue open so the community has a chance to weigh in.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/8/25
- **Created**: 9/8/25
- **Description**: In FHIR-51643 the invariant on this extension was discussed. This ticket was discussed and accepted by FHIR-i on the 8 Sept 2025 call.

In FHIR R4, choice questions are limited to questions of type Coding. In R5, this restriction has been lessened; all data types that are allowed in Questionnaire.item.answerOption are allowed as choice types.

In the FHIR-i call, we did not want to extend the scope of the choice-orientation-extension to also cover answer types different from Coding. This ticket requests that for Questionnaires R5 onward, choice-orientation also applies to data types different from Coding.
- **Grouping**: [SDC]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52745
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Questionnaire
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-51643: Fix contextInvariant to be version-specific
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-questionnaire-choiceOrientation.html
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Choice Orientation extension should allow all choice types
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52745

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/8/25
Security: Public

Inclination is to remove the context invariant entirely.  With the answerExpression data type, it's possible to have a list of candidate answers for any of the allowed answer types, and if you have a list of candidate answers, you might reasonably want to specify the preferred orientation of the list.  Leaving the issue open so the community has a chance to weigh in.

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 9/8/25
Security: Public

See Zulip thread: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179255-questionnaire/topic/Choice-orientation-extension.20for.20other.20types.20than.20Coding/with/538307607

