# FHIR-40780: Questionnaire.item.answerOption has inconsistencies regarding Questionnaire.item.type and answerOption.value[x]

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Brian Postlethwaite will start a discussion about the constraint for answerValueset.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/20/23
- **Created**: 4/7/23
- **Description**: Questionnaire.item.answerOption is currently (after rule que-5) allowed for 8 item-types, but answerOption.value&#91;x&#93; only defines 6 value-choices.

Missing, corresponding to the 8 item-types, are:
valueDecimal, valueDateTime, valueQuantity.

Additionaly answerOption.value&#91;x&#93; allows valueReference, while item.type reference is not allowed to have answerOption/answerValueSet (according to rule que-5).

Finally there are no restrictions documented for which value-choice should be used for a specific item.type. Meaning at the moment an item with type integer is allowed to have answerOption with valueDate, valueQuantity, ... . An explicit rule expecting type and value to match could speed up understanding the intention of answerOption in R5.
- **Grouping**: [SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40780
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Questionnaire
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire-definitions.html#Questionnaire.item.answerOption
- **Reporter**: Patrick Steiger
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The list of types in the que-5 invariant and the list of types on the answerOption element should be the same.  Will expand both lists to cover the same set of types + uri (i.e. same as initial.value[x] excluding boolean and Attachment).  We will limit the que-5 invariant to answerOption.

We will define a new invariant similar to que-5 for answerValueSet that limits its use to items of type Coding, string and uri (the set of the 'option' data types normally allowed to be bound to a ValueSet).

Will add a comment to answerValueSet that says: "For items of type Coding, the value set indicates the allowed code+system matches.  For items of type 'string', the display values in the value set expansion are taken as the allowed values for the item. "

We will make explicit via another new invariant that the data type of the answerOption.value[x] must match that of the item.type (if options are present).
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Questionnaire.item.answerOption has inconsistencies regarding Questionnaire.item.type and answerOption.value[x]
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40780

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/20/23
Security: Public

Brian Postlethwaite will start a discussion about the constraint for answerValueset.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/20/23
Security: Public

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179255-questionnaire/topic/Invariants

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/19/25
Security: Public

Git 07924f1a0e19

