# FHIR-44049: Format on data types page is faulty

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Jeff Brown I working on applying your ticket and have troubles understanding what you want to fix. Is this ticket still valid? If so, what are the changes you want to make.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 5/28/26
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot1/datatypes.html 
The format is apparently truncated and askew.  Links are problematic.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-44049
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot1/datatypes.html
- **Reporter**: Jeff Brown
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Format on data types page is faulty
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44049

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 5/28/26
Security: Public

Jeff Brown I working on applying your ticket and have troubles understanding what you want to fix. Is this ticket still valid? If so, what are the changes you want to make.

### 2. Jeff Brown - 5/28/26
Security: Public

When I go to this page and scroll to the bottom of the page - it just ends.  It has no footer or anything.  It appears to be truncated.

### 3. Bas van den Heuvel - 5/28/26
Security: Public

Thanks for the reply. When I host the page locally, that issue is not present. It is present in the build. Might be a hosting issue.

### 4. Bas van den Heuvel - 5/28/26
Security: Public

This issue might be caused by the web-server hosting the FHIR website. Possibly related to serving large paged. Is this the case? If so how do we solve it?

