# FHIR-51466: Clarify behavior of above and below modifiers for canonical references

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/10/25
- **Created**: 7/9/25
- **Description**: The above and below modifiers do not fully describe their behaviors in reference to canonical version resolution.

For example, the below modifier says (emphasis mine):

When the below modifier is used with a reference type search parameter and the target is an element with the FHIR type canonical, the search is interpreted as a version search against the canonical resource. The format of the parameter is either &#91;url&#93; or &#91;url&#93;|&#91;version&#93; (see Encoding Note). This search is only allowed if the version scheme for the resource is known (e.g., a known version-scheme extension or element). Version-related search criteria against resources with unknown versioning schemes SHALL be either ignored or rejected. The below modifier comparison is performed as a 'less than' against the version-scheme defined by the resource.

What does that mean in relation to (at least) the SemVer version scheme?  E.g., what is the difference between:
A. GET &#91;base&#93;/CodeSystem?url:below=.../ExampleCodeSystem|1.0
and 
B. GET &#91;base&#93;/CodeSystem?url:below=.../ExampleCodeSystem|2.0

Is the resolution based on partial matches (e.g., using the 1.0 and 2.0 literals) or only testing against all versions and filtering based on a final comparison?  E.g.:

	would they both return a version 0.5 (assuming it exists)?
	if the lowest version is 1.5, does that mean A returns nothing and B returns v1.5?



Please add clarification to the text for both of the modifiers, as well as examples (showing at least one simple and one complex interaction).
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51466
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify behavior of above and below modifiers for canonical references
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51466

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

