# FHIR-52936: Search type uri prose may benefit from a minor clarification.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/10/25
- **Created**: 9/22/25
- **Description**: Specifically:

https://build.fhir.org/search.html#uri:~:text=The%20search%20type%20uri%20is%20used%20with%20elements%20of%20type%20uri%20and%20url.%20Note%20that%20the%20search%20type%20reference%20is%20used%20for%20the%20types%20Reference%20and%20canonical%2C%20even%20though%20they%20may%20contain%20URI%20values.

Current:
The search type uri is used with elements of type uri and url. Note that the search type reference is used for the types Reference and canonical, even though they may contain URI values.
Proposed:
The search type uri is generally used with elements of type uri and url. Note that the search type reference is used for the types Reference and canonical, even though they may contain URI values.
Added the word "generally".

Alternatively, consider clarifying that search types uri and reference map to both data types uri and canonical. This is clear from the cross-map here:

https://build.fhir.org/search.html#uri:~:text=Cross%2Dmap%20between%20search%20parameter%20types%20and%20Datatypes%3A

Refer to this Zulip topic:

#implementers &gt; ConceptMap SearchParameter Error

This thread pertains to R4 specifically (i.e. the ConceptMap source-uri search parameter in R4 has a search type of reference, which resulted in some confusion); however, the proposed change is still useful.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52936
- **Reporter**: Diederik Muylwyk
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Search type uri prose may benefit from a minor clarification.

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52936

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

