# FHIR-48492: Un-deprecate jurisdiction element in various resources

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: See Specifying jurisdiction

There are multiple reasons why this is a good idea:

	The way the jurisdiction element has ended up being used is that it identifies the defining jurisdiction. This is not necessarily the same as the list of jurisdictions where the content is appropriate for use (as deemed by some authority).
	Note that this doesn't quite match the definition, so I propose "Jurisdiction that defined this {title}, and where it is expected to be used" with a comment of "Note that other jurisdictions might make use of this {title} and might be listed in useContext if that happens"
	the package ecosystem is cross version, and deprecating jurisdiction is painful for that
	the same applies to the IG publisher



 

Irrespective of whether the element is un-deprecated, the value set should be anyway
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/3/24
- **Created**: 10/3/24
- **Description**: The jurisdiction element in many resources was inappropriately deprecated in R5 and should be returned. The associated value set should also be un-deprecated.

 

The related artifacts listed are conformance artifacts, however, this probably should be applied to all locations where jurisdiction was removed or deprecated in favour of useContext.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48492
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CanonicalResource

CapabilityStatement (Conformance)

CodeSystem

ConceptMap

GraphDefinition

ImplementationGuide

MessageDefinition

NamingSystem

OperationDefinition

SearchParameter

StructureDefinition

StructureMap

ValueSet
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Un-deprecate jurisdiction element in various resources
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48492

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 10/3/24
Security: Public

See Specifying jurisdiction

There are multiple reasons why this is a good idea:

	The way the jurisdiction element has ended up being used is that it identifies the defining jurisdiction. This is not necessarily the same as the list of jurisdictions where the content is appropriate for use (as deemed by some authority).
	Note that this doesn't quite match the definition, so I propose "Jurisdiction that defined this {title}, and where it is expected to be used" with a comment of "Note that other jurisdictions might make use of this {title} and might be listed in useContext if that happens"
	the package ecosystem is cross version, and deprecating jurisdiction is painful for that
	the same applies to the IG publisher



 

Irrespective of whether the element is un-deprecated, the value set should be anyway

### 2. Reuben Daniels - 11/20/24
Security: Public

Hi Elliot

Thank you for submitting this tracker item.

Noting that the list of resource types (to which the suggested change is requested) are curated by three different HL7 work groups namely:

	FHIR Infrastructure (FHIR-I)  (CanonicalResource, CapabilityStatement, GraphDefinition, ImplementationGuide, OperationDefinition, SearchParameter, StructureDefinition, StructureMap)
	Infrastructure &amp; Messaging (I&amp;M) (MessageDefinition) 
	Terminology Infrastructure (TI) (CodeSystem, ConceptMap, ValueSet and NamingSystem)



can I suggest that you:

	update this tracker to only apply those resources curated by FHIR-I; and
	create two new trackers items specifically to address the resources types curated by TI and I&amp;M



?

Alternatively, we will need to arrange a joint FHIR-I, TI &amp; I&amp;M conference call or WGM quarter to resolve and vote on this item.

### 3. Elliot Silver - 11/20/24
Security: Public

Reuben Daniels, I don't think that separating this into three issues is beneficial. Doing so would entertain the possibility that one WG finds the issue persuasive, one WG finds the issue non-persuasive, and one WG finds it persuasive with mod and comes up with an alterate approach.

We need to apply the same solution across all of these resources.

### 4. Marc Duteau - 11/21/24
Security: Public

One thing to note is that the value set is not actually deprecated in the source files.  It's deprecated automatically by the publisher because every place in the core spec where it is referenced is deprecated.

If at least one of the items in the list is no longer deprecated the value set should no longer be deprecated automatically as well, if I'm understanding it right.

### 5. Marc Duteau - 11/21/24
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/blob/master/source/terminologies/valueset-jurisdiction.xml

### 6. Marc Duteau - 5/14/25
Security: Public

Grahame will follow up with other work groups that are impacted like CDS and InM

Voted during May 2025 WGM Wednesday Q1

