# FHIR-53684: Add "abstract" flag to ImplementationGuide

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Is the issue about abstract IGs or about IGs containing abstract profiles? Is there a need for other types of IGs, such as those that are informative-only, narrative-only?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/23/26
- **Created**: 12/19/25
- **Description**: Some implementation guides are not meant to be implemented directly, but rather serve as a "base" for derivative implementation guides to inherit from.  Some examples include:

	Clinical Order Workflow (COW)
	Many national "base" IGs.



There are also some other "features" that are not meant to be implemented directly, but aren't "ImplementationGuides".  One primary example is SMARTv2 scopes.

 

It would be useful to establish some method of identifying these "abstract" artifacts, so that it is clear what content is intended to be implemented by software developers, vs. what content is meant to be building blocks for derivative IG authors.

 

In my head, I'm thinking of this like the "abstract" keyword in C#.

 

I'm writing this against ImplementationGuide, but I acknowledge that there are some "Implementation Guides" that don't use the ImplementationGuide resource (e.g., SMARTv2 scopes), so it won't catch everything.  I'm open to other options for how to flag such content.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53684
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ImplementationGuide
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/implementationguide
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We agree that IGs should indicate their intended purpose in a codified way.  Some of these codes would specifically indicate that they should never appear in CapabilityStatement.implementationGuide and SHOULD not appear in contractual language that says "implement this".  We will handle this through https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48768.

We will also add a section in Implementation Guide notes called "Declaring conformance to guides" that says the following:

"It's not uncommon for contractual or regulatory language to require implementation of certain implementation guides.  However, not all guides are appropriate to be referenced in this manner.  For example, some implementation guides may define libraries of artifacts or make general context-agnostic recommendations that require additional guidance/constraint to be useable.  Other guides will define a number of CapabilityStatements and/or ActorDefinitions and when setting implementation expectations, it's necessary to point to those child resources in order to meaningfully assert implementation expectations.

Implementation guides *SHOULD* make clear what their intended purposes and uses are.  The ImplementationGuide.useContext element may be helpful in surfacing these expectations in a more computable fashion."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add "abstract" flag to ImplementationGuide
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53684

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 1/23/26
Security: Public

Is the issue about abstract IGs or about IGs containing abstract profiles? Is there a need for other types of IGs, such as those that are informative-only, narrative-only?

### 2. Isaac Vetter - 1/26/26
Security: Public

Seems very related to: FHIR-48768 Define terminology so that authors can use usageContext to categorise profiles and IGs - Jira

