# FHIR-27888: Create examples for multiple-item orders for ServiceRequest (and other Requests)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Assigning this to you in the hopes that you already have one or two kicking around from the CDS work as generated from a PlanDefinition.
- **Assignee**: Robert Hausam
- **Comments**: 5/2/22
- **Created**: 6/29/20
- **Description**: The Request pattern has some guidance on how to group orders of different items. Some examples may be useful in explaining how this works; Add examples (under RequestGroup).

Open question: how would we link from the ServiceRequest examples to say "You will find other examples in http://build.fhir.org/requestgroup-examples.html"

We may want to provide some additional guidance on the pattern (some usage notes).
- **Grouping**: [R6-Text]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-27888
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ServiceRequest
- **Reporter**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Create examples for multiple-item orders for ServiceRequest (and other Requests)
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27888

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/2/22
Security: Public

Assigning this to you in the hopes that you already have one or two kicking around from the CDS work as generated from a PlanDefinition.

### 2. Marti Velezis - 3/12/24
Security: Public

Bryn Rhodes can we get a status on this ticket?  We are reviewing our outstanding resource assignments and this appears on our backlog, but it should be assigned to RelatedArtifact = Request Pattern instead.  Can you fix that?

