# FHIR-36040: FHIRpath expressions must be able to access parameter values

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-03-15 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/David Hay: 6-0-1//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//These could not be resolved prior to publication of R5.  They will be resolved as part of R6.  Action taken by FMG, but work group left unchanged to simplify re-opening/re-disposition process.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/30/23
- **Created**: 2/16/22
- **Description**: The FHIR specification supports different operations that require evaluating expressions with FHIRpath. These expressions require access to the context of the operation meaning the parameters provided.

I suggest to add a variable to the FHIR FHIRpath section so parameter fields will be accessible as an enviroment variable.

%param --&gt; Parameter resource

Is related to https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-29211
- **Grouping**: [Fit-For-Teleconference]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-36040
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: FHIRpath expressions must be able to access parameter values

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-36040

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-03-15 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/David Hay: 6-0-1//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//These could not be resolved prior to publication of R5.  They will be resolved as part of R6.  Action taken by FMG, but work group left unchanged to simplify re-opening/re-disposition process.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/20/26
Security: Public

https://build.fhir.org/fhirpath.html#variables

