# FHIR-49961: Call out that system logic (and users?) can't infer generic codes exclude specialized codes

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I think the description underestimates the complexity here. To stick with the example given, LOINC doesn't have a code for 'blood pressure, not post exercise'. So the only way that you can specify that is by not including 'Blood pressure, post exercise'. This is not a happy place to be, and where the real clinical safety issue applies, because an implementer or even a community making profiles might not consider this subtlety of this usage, and just fix the code to 'blood pressure' assuming that this does mean 'not post-exercise', but it might not. 


At a minimum, this means it's not really safe to ignore the applicable value sets, but who can do that? 

The wording proposed above doesn't begin to get at the challenges faced by implementers here, and I'd like the wording to at least present the issue to implementers
- **Assignee**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Comments**: 3/6/25
- **Created**: 3/6/25
- **Description**: It's been identified on Zulip that some systems have a convention where sending a general code implies that none of the more specific codes apply.  For example, if there's a code "Blood pressure, post exercise" and a code "Blood pressure", the presumption is that if you send the "Blood pressure" code, that can safely be inferred to mean "Blood pressure that was not post-exercise".

However, this is never a safe assumption, because while the code system might have a concept for "Blood pressure, post exercise", it's not a given that the value set in use did.  That might be a value set used for data capture (i.e. user interface), but it could also be a value set mandated for interoperability with a specific type of system (e.g. analytics, decision support, etc.)

This is a safety issue, as systems that infer inappropriate meaning to codes may create harm.

Suggest adding something like:

"Systems SHALL NOT infer that a choice to send a generic code when a code system allows more specific codes means that the none of the specific codes from that code system apply."
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49961
- **Related Page(s)**: Clinical Safety (safety)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Call out that system logic (and users?) can't infer generic codes exclude specialized codes

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49961

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 3/6/25
Security: Public

I think the description underestimates the complexity here. To stick with the example given, LOINC doesn't have a code for 'blood pressure, not post exercise'. So the only way that you can specify that is by not including 'Blood pressure, post exercise'. This is not a happy place to be, and where the real clinical safety issue applies, because an implementer or even a community making profiles might not consider this subtlety of this usage, and just fix the code to 'blood pressure' assuming that this does mean 'not post-exercise', but it might not. 


At a minimum, this means it's not really safe to ignore the applicable value sets, but who can do that? 

The wording proposed above doesn't begin to get at the challenges faced by implementers here, and I'd like the wording to at least present the issue to implementers

### 2. Gino Canessa - 4/7/25
Security: Public

As discussed on FHIR-I on April 7, please flesh out a proposed addition to the safety page.  E.g., section, context prose, and items to add.

Thanks!

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/7/25
Security: Public

More detailed proposal:

Add a new section to "Safety Checklist" right after "Date/Timezone Related Checks" titled "CodeableConcept Related Checks".  Within that new section add the following new checks:

	My system takes into account the presence of negating elements such as "do not perform" before adding more generic code translations to a CodeableConcept.  (Adding 'more general' translations to non-negated instances does not change their meaning, while adding the same translations to negated instances does change their meaning.)
	My system does not presume that transmission of a generic code precludes the possibility of a more specific code available in the code system from applying.  For example, selection of "Systolic Blood Pressure" does not imply "Systolic Blood Pressure without Exercise" merely because the code system has a more detailed code of "Systolic Blood Pressure with Exercise" that could theoretically have been chosen was not chosen.
	My system checks the code system of Codings before inferring meaning from a code and does not presume that codes without a declared code system come from any particular code system.
	My system checks for the most appropriate Coding for my purposes from within the collection provided and does not presume that the first Coding or the first Coding from a given code system will necessarily be the most appropriate for my use.

