# FHIR-38631: Which FHIR types are available from FHIRPath?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 9/14/22
- **Description**: http://hl7.org/fhir/fhirpath.html#types defines the types ("primitive data types, data types, resources") in the FHIR namespace for FHIRPath.

However, it doesn't actually list the types here, which makes me wonder

	are profiled datatypes like SimpleQuantity and MoneyQuantity included?
	are patterns/interface names included?



 

One place this matter is in the FHIRPath `is` and `as` operators.

For example, for `is`, its defined as follows:

&gt; If the left operand is a collection with a single item and the second operand is a type identifier, this operator returns true if the type of the left operand is the type specified in the second operand, or a subclass thereof.

 

It would be good for this core spec page to describe what "subclass" means here in the context of FHIR types (especially datatypes), because most of the current implementations get this wrong.

 

Based on the discussion at https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179266-fhirpath/topic/FHIRPath.20.60is.60.20and.20.60as.60.20with.20FHIR.20types this is a place where the conformance tests should be improved.
- **Grouping**: [Fit-For-Teleconference, WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Question
- **Key**: FHIR-38631
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-53947: Intro section(s) general improvements
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.9.1
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/fhirpath.html#types
- **Reporter**: Lee Surprenant
- **Resolution**: Considered - Question answered
- **Resolution Description**: Update the Using FHIR types in expressions to describe how the FHIR type heirarchy interacts with the is/as operations/functions from FHIRPath.

Noting that they only work on actual types and sub-types, not profiles.

We already have examples showing the relationships between fhir and fhirpath types.

Add these examples to show how fhirpath types are related.

{{Patient.gender is FHIR.string // true ; FHIR.code derives from FHIR.string
Patient.gender is FHIR.code   // true ; by definition
Patient.gender is System.string // false ; no relationship to FHIR.string
Patient is FHIR.DomainResource // true ; base class for Patient
Patient is FHIR.Resource // true ; in Patient's class heirarchy
}}

 

{{Also update the existing examples to show their result and reasoning:}}

{{Patient.id is System.String // true ; The resource ID is actually a fhirpath primitive, it does not have extensions.
(Patient.id is FHIR.id).not // ???
Patient.name.given.ofType(FHIR.string) // true
Patient.name.given.ofType(System.string) // false ; this is a FHIR string type

}}
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Which FHIR types are available from FHIRPath?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-38631

## Comments

_No comments in export._
