# FHIR-50267: Need to clarify how snapshot generation works w/ slices

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: There should be no changes to the current slicing rules and snapshot generation and interpretation should be based upon the explicitly defined structures and not on undocumented "intrinsic meanings" 
 
Here is what I drafted to propose for the updated text: 
That is, the first element in a slice group ( the "slicer") must contain a slicing property that defines the discriminator for all members. It also contains the unconstrained definition of the element that is sliced, potentially including children of the unconstrained element. Properties in each slice will inherit the parent properties (not the slicer's properties!) in the snapshot unless the property is defined in that slice. For example, an Observation.category slice binding will inherit the profiles's parent binding.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/16/25
- **Created**: 4/16/25
- **Description**: We should change the hierarchy of the 'slicing' section so that 'Discriminator', 'Slice Cardinality', and 'Default Slice' all appear as children of 'Slicing', given that they're all actually talking about that.
	We should add a new sub-topic called "Slicing Snapshot Generation" with the following text:



"Snapshot generation with slicing is complicated, because there are two sets of rules that theoretically come into play - the rules inherited from a slice declared in a parent profile, and rules defined on the 'base' slicing element in the derived profile.  This essentially provides two 'base' elements, and there are edge cases that make trying to combine multiple bases plus the differential downright miserable.

For this reason, when generating snapshots, the constraints of the base (slicing) elements are not included in the snapshots produced for the slices.  The base for a slice in a derived profile is the same slice in the snapshot of the parent profile.  If there is no corresponding slice in the parent profile, then the base for the slice is the 'base' element in the parent profile.

Even though the constraints of the slicing element are not reflected in the snapshots of the slices, all of the constraints in the slicing element still apply.  For example, if a binding is present in the slicing element, that binding holds for all slices.  If a slicing element declares mustSupport, then the element as a whole is mustSupport, which intrinsically means that all slices are automatically mustSupport (whether they declare it or not). "
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50267
- **Related Page(s)**: Profiling
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Do this, changing "downright miserable" to "exceptionally complex"
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Need to clarify how snapshot generation works w/ slices
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50267

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 4/16/25
Security: Public

There should be no changes to the current slicing rules and snapshot generation and interpretation should be based upon the explicitly defined structures and not on undocumented "intrinsic meanings" 
 
Here is what I drafted to propose for the updated text: 
That is, the first element in a slice group ( the "slicer") must contain a slicing property that defines the discriminator for all members. It also contains the unconstrained definition of the element that is sliced, potentially including children of the unconstrained element. Properties in each slice will inherit the parent properties (not the slicer's properties!) in the snapshot unless the property is defined in that slice. For example, an Observation.category slice binding will inherit the profiles's parent binding.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/16/25
Security: Public

This isn't a change, it's documenting what the snapshot generation behavior has long been.  And that behavior says that the constraints of the slicing element can't be reflected in the snapshots of the slices, but do apply to them.

### 3. Grahame Grieve - 4/16/25
Security: Public

-1 on the word 'miserable' in a standard

Moer generally, though, I think it's too late to make this a SHALL, and we should settle for a validation warning. (And I don't think it can/should be a FHIRPath constraint - If only because the warning has to happen even if there's no actual snapshot to validate, though there are other reasons)

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/16/25
Security: Public

Happy to change "downright miserable" to "exceptionally difficult".

None of it is framed as a 'SHALL'.  Are you thinking the snapshot generation bits are implemented differently in different places?

The semantics of what constraints on the slicer element mean are not new, just clarifying what's always been the case.

