# FHIR-40304: Clarify a Period includes the earliest/latest instant of start/end

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/10/25
- **Created**: 1/22/23
- **Description**: Clarify that a Period includes the earliest instant of the start dateTime through to the latest instant of the end dateTime. Actually, clarify this for all date searches (a date includes the earliest instant of the date to the accuracy specified through to the latest instant of the date to the accuracy specified, etc.).

 

Suggested text:
Date searches are intrinsically matches against 'periods', regardless of the underlying element type. The 'period' of a date search is from the earliest instant of the value through to the latest instant of the value. For more information about how the different search prefixes work when comparing periods/ranges, refer to the Prefixes section. Date parameters may be used with the following datatypes:



date
The range of the value is includes the earliest instant through the latest instant of the day, month, or year as specified


dateTime
The range of the value as defined above; e.g. For example, the date 2013-01-10 specifies all the time from 00:00 on 10-Jan 2013 to immediately before 00:00 on 11-Jan 2013


instant
An instant is considered a fixed point in time with an interval smaller than the precision of the system, i.e. an interval where the earliest instant matches the latest instant with an effective width of 0


Period
The range of the value is explicit and includes the earliest instant of the lower bound through the latest instant of the upper bound; although Explicit, though the upper or lower bound might not actually be specified in resources.


Timing
the The specified scheduling details are ignored and only the outer limits matter. For instance, a schedule that specifies a certain time on every second day between 31-Jan 2013 and 24-Mar 2013 includes 1-Feb 2013, even though that is on an odd day that is not specified by the period. Similarly, the period would include the start of 31-Jan 2023 through the end of 24-Mar 2023, ignoring the scheduled time (unless the outer limits were accurate to that time). This is to keep the server load processing queries reasonable. 





Implicitly, a A missing lower boundary is "less than" any actual date. A missing upper boundary is "greater than" any actual date. Date searches can be controlled through the use of prefixes as described in the following table:

...
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40304
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify a Period includes the earliest/latest instant of start/end

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40304

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

