# FHIR-57501: Fix conflicting definition of ImplementationGuide.global

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: See discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179252-IG-creation/topic/How.20are.20authors.20using.20ImplementationGuide.2Eglobal.3F/with/599629741
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/2/26
- **Created**: 6/2/26
- **Description**: In the definition for the element it says "A set of profiles that all resources covered by this implementation guide must conform to."

However, in the notes section it says: "An implementation guide can define default profiles using ImplementationGuide.global- these are profiles that apply to any resource that does not otherwise have an explicit profile assigned by the implementation guide. Default profiles are always references to profiles (StructureDefinition resources) that are also contained in the resources. By defining default profiles, an implementation guide can save itself from exhaustively defining profiles on every resource type just to profile every reference to a particular resource type."

Grahame believes the first is correct.  I (Lloyd) believe the second is correct.  Both can't be true.  We definitely need to correct one of the two places.  It's possible there's a need for both.  Note that the first interpretation means that if there's a reference to a profiled data type or profiled resources, that both that profile and the global profile would have to be met (and the reader would have to figure out the implications of that).

I'll start a Zulip thread to see how existing authors who've used Global have intended it to be interpretted.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57501
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ImplementationGuide
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Fix conflicting definition of ImplementationGuide.global
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57501

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/2/26
Security: Public

See discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179252-IG-creation/topic/How.20are.20authors.20using.20ImplementationGuide.2Eglobal.3F/with/599629741

