# FHIR-53893: Clarify and edit Canonicalization Variants section

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/9/26
- **Description**: Clarify and Edits to the variants sections: 

I propose the following: ( source: https://github.com/Healthedata1/fhir/blob/master/source/signatures.html)
Canonicalization Variants

The following additional canonicalization URIs are also defined to allow systems the flexibility to sign the portions of the resource that matter for the workflow the signature serves. Additional canonicalization methods may be defined by this or other specifications in the future.



http://hl7.org/fhir/canonicalization/{fmt†}#data
Recursively* omits all elements of type Narrative (e.g. Resource.text, Composition.section.text, etc.) prior to signing (note this removes the whole narrative element, not just the div element


http://hl7.org/fhir/canonicalization/{fmt†}#static
Recursively* omits all elements of type Narrative (e.g. Resource.text, Composition.section.text, etc.) as per data above,and also all occurrences of Resource.meta. This makes the signature robust as the content is moved from server to server, or workflow and access tags are added or removed. Note that workflow and security tags may contain information important to the handling of the resource, so meta elements should be protected from tampering by other means if the resource is signed with this canonicalization.


http://hl7.org/fhir/canonicalization/{fmt†}#narrative
Recursively* omits all elements other than Resource.id and elements with type Narrative. I.e. the only content retained is resource identity and narrative. When the goal of the digital signature includes human-level non-repudiation, implementers should consider the resource narrative as the signed form. NOTE: any bundle entries are removed, so narrative links are likely to be broken, and the the canonicalized resource might not be a 'valid' instance.


http://hl7.org/fhir/canonicalization/{fmt†}#document
The Document Bundle.id and Bundle.metadata on the root Bundle are omitted prior to signing. This allows for a document to be copied from server to server





&#42;The process applies to all nested resources such as contained resources, Bundle entries, nested content in Parameters, etc.
† "json", "json-xml", or "xml"

	When omitting elements during canonicalization, all the elements on the path to the retained elements must also be retained. For example, if performing a 'narrative' canonicalization of a Bundle with a composition, if the Narrative elements Composition.text or Composition.section.text exist, then the Bundle.entry, .resource and Composition.text nodes needed to reach those elements would be retained.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53893
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Clarify and edit Canonicalization Variants section

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53893

## Comments

_No comments in export._
