# FHIR-41288: Error when clicking on "Compare to R4" or "Compare to R4B" at bottom of base page

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: When he has time, Grahame will investigate how hard it is to check whether a page exists in the 'comparison target' and to suppress the comparison links if the page is net new.  (or alternatively change the comparison link to say something like "New to R6".)

We won't (likely) be fixing this in R5.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/18/23
- **Created**: 5/11/23
- **Description**: An error (404 Not Found) occured trying to get http://hl7.org/fhir/R4B/types.html.

Link may not be appropriate for this page since it was added in R5
- **Grouping**: [ready-for-vote]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41288
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.27.5
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/types.html#Base
- **Reporter**: Linda Michaelsen
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Note that this is not a specification issue, but since it has been addressed we are considering it as persuasive.

Issue was addressed by hosting the W3C comparison service directly in HL7.

 

Already fixed
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Error when clicking on "Compare to R4" or "Compare to R4B" at bottom of base page
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41288

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/18/23
Security: Public

When he has time, Grahame will investigate how hard it is to check whether a page exists in the 'comparison target' and to suppress the comparison links if the page is net new.  (or alternatively change the comparison link to say something like "New to R6".)

We won't (likely) be fixing this in R5.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 1/12/26
Security: Public

Issue was between HL7 and W3C and use of the service. This has been fixed by hosting the comparison service within HL7 directly.

