# FHIR-53252: Add "generated" to the Request Status code system

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Michelle Miller
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Patient Care FHIR Conference Call on 11/6/2025

Rob H. thinks that OO or FHIR-I should own code system, so instead of resolving JIRA, PC will discuss which WG to own code system.

FHIR-I owns Value Set and Request pattern.

OO owns ServiceRequest.

Is it more about the pattern (FHIR-I) or subject of request/orders (OO)?

Next step:  Michelle will reach out to OO and FHIR-I to see who wants to own it?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/6/25
- **Created**: 10/27/25
- **Description**: The ImmunizationRecommendation resource is aligned with the Request Pattern. A request has been made to add a .status element to ImmunizationRecommendation (see https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53251) to better align with Request. Given the nature of ImmunizationRecommendation, the FHIR-I workflow group (on Oct 27, 2025) recommended that the bound value set include the existing "entered-in-error" code, but neither "active" or "completed" seemed correct for a status that is not "entered-in-error". FHIR-I suggested adding "generated" to the existing result-status code system to indicate that the the ImmunizationRecommendation has been generated.
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53252
- **Reporter**: Craig Newman
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add "generated" to the Request Status code system

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53252

## Comments

### 1. Michelle Miller - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Patient Care FHIR Conference Call on 11/6/2025

Rob H. thinks that OO or FHIR-I should own code system, so instead of resolving JIRA, PC will discuss which WG to own code system.

FHIR-I owns Value Set and Request pattern.

OO owns ServiceRequest.

Is it more about the pattern (FHIR-I) or subject of request/orders (OO)?

Next step:  Michelle will reach out to OO and FHIR-I to see who wants to own it?

### 2. John D.L. Nolen - 11/14/25
Security: Public

Michelle Miller Discussed on OO on FHIR meeting. and we agree that FHIR-I should own this code set because they also own the request pattern.

### 3. Michelle Miller - 11/18/25
Security: Public

Per email on Nov 18, 2025, FHIR-I agrees to assume ownership of this code system

### 4. Josh Mandel - 11/24/25
Security: Public

LloydTest This is showing up on our FHIR infrastructure core call, but I think it belongs in the workflow call. I will note from discussion on the core call, we don't think it makes sense to include a new generated value as a status in most of the places where request status has appear. Can this be sent to workflow for discussion but brought back to a main call before deciding?

