# FHIR-54534: Service call impact unclear

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I don't know what it means either. It was added to the spec 11 years ago in a PR I authored. I did not look at all of the Jira tickets in that PR. I think this text can be removed.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/13/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: The document that is a target of the reference can be a reference to a FHIR document served by another server, or the target can be stored in the FHIR Binary Resource, or the target can be stored on some other server system. The document reference is also able to address documents that are retrieved by a service call such as an XDS.b RetrieveDocumentSet , or a DICOM WADO-RS exchange, or an HL7 V2  message query - though the way each of these service calls works must be specified in some external standard or other documentation.
I'm not sure what is meant by this sentence. Does it mean that the source could be WADO, XDS, .. and that the user needs knowledge of these specifications in order to access them?

If that is the case, in what does the user know it has to do so? Please clarify behavior or update text to be less ambigue.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54534
- **Related Artifact(s)**: DocumentReference
- **Related Section(s)**: 10.2.2
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Update the BnR to remove the text after HL7 V2 message query, as shown in red:

The document that is a target of the reference can be a reference to a FHIR document served by another server, or the target can be stored in the [FHIR Binary Resource|https://build.fhir.org/http.html#binary], or the target can be stored on some other server system. The {color:#de350b}DocumentReference.content{color} is also able to address {color:#de350b}non-FHIR{color} documents that are retrieved by {color:#de350b}other means {color}such as -an {color:#de350b}[XDS.b RetrieveDocumentSet |https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/TF/Volume1/ch-10.html], or a{color}- DICOM [WADO-RS|ftp://medical.nema.org/medical/dicom/final/sup161_ft.pdf] exchange, or an [HL7 V2 |http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=185] message query{color:#de350b}*.* -though the way each of these service calls works must be specified in some external standard or other documentation.-{color}
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Service call impact unclear
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54534

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 5/13/26
Security: Public

I don't know what it means either. It was added to the spec 11 years ago in a PR I authored. I did not look at all of the Jira tickets in that PR. I think this text can be removed.

