# FHIR-46493: Add 'notified pull' option to notifications

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: When using the subscriptions framework, sometimes a server wants to send notifications with queries instead of ids or full resources.

Concrete use cases presented include:

	referrals for services that may be scheduled far into the future (ids of not-yet-created resources are not known)
	complex versions of 'id' notification (e.g., using an operation to fetch a set of resources, etc. - specific case of insurance coverage has been discussed).



This has been discussed both at multiple WGMs and many ad-hoc sessions. A larger document with proposals can be found here.
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 8/5/24
- **Created**: 7/29/24
- **Description**: Request to synchronize features from the Backport IG into R6.

In FHIR-43275, the option to send queries in notifications was requested for the Backport IG with the explicit intention of adding to R6 as well.  This is the ticket asking for those changes.

Propose adding matching functionality to R6 based on:

	FHIR-43275: Add 'notified pull' option to notifications
	FHIR-44107: Unstandardized Queryies --&gt; Enable Targeted Follow-ups
	FHIR-43607: Don't imply that standardized queries are the norm
	FHIR-43735: Notified Pull description does not refer to core subscription concepts
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46493
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SubscriptionStatus

SubscriptionTopic
- **Related Page(s)**: Subscriptions Framework
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Note: additional context can be found in the comments.

Make the following resource changes:
{{SubscriptionTopic}} changes:
* Add a {{relatedQuery}} backbone element to {{notificationShape}} as {{0..*}} with:
** {{queryType}} - {{Coding 0..1}}
** {{query}} - {{string 1..1}}

{{SubscriptionStatus}} changes:
* Add a {{relatedQuery}} backbone element to {{notificationEvent}} as {{0..*}} with:
** {{queryType}} - {{Coding 0..1}}
** {{query}} - {{string 1..1}}

Add documentation to {{SubscriptionTopic}}, {{SubscriptionStatus}}, and the {{Subscription Framework}} pages describing the use cases.

Add/update examples to include coded and uncoded queries.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add 'notified pull' option to notifications
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46493

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 8/5/24
Security: Public

When using the subscriptions framework, sometimes a server wants to send notifications with queries instead of ids or full resources.

Concrete use cases presented include:

	referrals for services that may be scheduled far into the future (ids of not-yet-created resources are not known)
	complex versions of 'id' notification (e.g., using an operation to fetch a set of resources, etc. - specific case of insurance coverage has been discussed).



This has been discussed both at multiple WGMs and many ad-hoc sessions. A larger document with proposals can be found here.

