# FHIR-51049: Add guidance about interdependency between batch entries

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 6/9/25
- **Description**: The documentation about the relationships between batch entries says this:

&gt;For a batch, there SHALL be no interdependencies between the different entries in the Bundle that cause change on the server. E.g. multiple entries making updates, patches, or deletes to the same resource with would be considered interdependencies. The success or failure of one change SHOULD not alter the success or failure or resulting content of another change. Servers SHOULD validate that this is the case. Note that it is considered that servers execute the batch in the same order as that specified below for transactions, though the order of execution should not matter given the previous rule.

That fails to deal with interpendencies between entries in regard to operation parameters. Ideally, we would like too prohibit this, but it's too late to add SHALL rules about this because of normative. So propose to add a new paragraph:

"Batches SHOULD not have interdependencies between entries such that they cannot be processed independently, irrespective of whether they cause change on the server. Note that prohibiting this was omitted in the past, so the rule cannot be stated more strongly, but clients are not able to rely on servers correctly processing explicit or implied relationships between e.g. parameters to operations on different entries in the batch."
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51049
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add guidance about interdependency between batch entries

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51049

## Comments

_No comments in export._
