# FHIR-26599: Description and definition of Bundle.entry.fullUrl is confusing

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: It would be really nice if we could allow fullUrl to be something that an absolute URL.  One of the largest pain points we (Epic) have when deploying our FHIR server at health systems is sorting out the base URL for inclusion in the fullUrl.  That is really hard when your FHIR server is behind reverse proxies, load balanced VIPs, WAFs, etc. since the FHIR server does not actually know what hostname is visible to the FHIR client.

 

Any guidance that allows us to use either urns, or relative URLs would be AMAZING.
- **Assignee**: Vassil Peytchev
- **Comments**: 3/18/20
- **Created**: 3/17/20
- **Description**: It is not clear if there are legitimate exceptions between fullUrl being the endpoint of a resource accessible via the FHIR REST API (or another API), and it being a UUID in URN notation. The use of shall and should seems inconsistent.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-26599
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related Section(s)**: http://build.fhir.org/bundle-definitions.html#Bundle.entry.fullUrl
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#bundle-unique
- **Reporter**: Vassil Peytchev
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Description and definition of Bundle.entry.fullUrl is confusing

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-26599

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 3/18/20
Security: Public

It would be really nice if we could allow fullUrl to be something that an absolute URL.  One of the largest pain points we (Epic) have when deploying our FHIR server at health systems is sorting out the base URL for inclusion in the fullUrl.  That is really hard when your FHIR server is behind reverse proxies, load balanced VIPs, WAFs, etc. since the FHIR server does not actually know what hostname is visible to the FHIR client.

 

Any guidance that allows us to use either urns, or relative URLs would be AMAZING.

### 2. Josh Mandel - 5/11/20
Security: Public

We should provide clarified language here – the intent will be to explain:

	When a "urn:" URI is allowed, vs URLs?
	What URI schemes are allowed?
	What urn schemes are allowed are allowed?
	Whether additional constraints apply in different contexts 



Grahame's task will be to propose more specific language.

### 3. Cooper Thompson - 6/11/20
Security: Public

Another consideration is what fullUrl should be (if anything) for transaction bundles performing DELETEs.  This came up on 6/11/2020 Bulk FHIR Argonaut work: 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HMpeT9Um22d8yggHq__hJ3e_dwyPUVSA_5J0NI-GxPw/edit

delete parameter in :https://github.com/HL7/bulk-data/pull/69/files?short_path=985cef1#diff-985cef1e2f9cd85436f27813aa6de763

### 4. Cooper Thompson - 6/11/20
Security: Public

Related JIRA: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27813 - Confusing language re: when fullUrl is required

### 5. Alexander Kiel - 6/12/20
Security: Public

How do you handle absolute URL's in Location headers of Created responses? We simply give our FHIR server it's Base URL via configuration. As long as their is only one public Base URL, that would work.

### 6. Cooper Thompson - 8/4/22
Security: Public

IIS ARR (and a few other reverse proxy servers I'm aware of) have an option to automatically re-write HTTP headers.  Re-writing content is trickier.

 

We also have a configuration in our FHIR server for the public base URL (s), and we use that to generate the base path of our references and other URLs.  However, our configuration is fairly complicated, since our customers have network architectures that essentially impose a requirement for their to be different base URLs for different clients (those installed on-prem vs. cloud hosted vs. public internet facing).    So your "As long as there is only one public Base URL, that should work" doesn't pan out for us.

### 7. Rick Geimer - 5/11/23
Security: Public

Vassil will work with Grahame to identify the other places in the spec where this should apply.

### 8. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Vassil Peytchev Poking to see where things are at with this...

