# FHIR-43499: Group.characteristic.determinedBy[x] definition needs correction

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The current definition says "(without using type and value)" however both code and value are mandatory.  And expression already exists on value.

Also, the two datatype choices are conveying completely different things.  One is saying "what kind of device should you use to measure this?", while the other is saying "how do you evaluate this measure within a candidate target resource".  Those things should be on separate elements.

Can you please confirm what's trying to be accomplished here?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/6/24
- **Created**: 1/4/24
- **Description**: Replace the existing definition with the following:

modifies the Group.characteristic.code and indicates how the value is to be determined, using either a Reference datatype or an Expression datatype.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43499
- **Reporter**: Jean Duteau
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Group.characteristic.determinedBy[x] definition needs correction

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43499

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/6/24
Security: Public

The current definition says "(without using type and value)" however both code and value are mandatory.  And expression already exists on value.

Also, the two datatype choices are conveying completely different things.  One is saying "what kind of device should you use to measure this?", while the other is saying "how do you evaluate this measure within a candidate target resource".  Those things should be on separate elements.

Can you please confirm what's trying to be accomplished here?

### 2. Bryn Rhodes - 3/6/25
Security: Public

Brian S. Alper, can you take a look at this item and provide a clearer definition of determinedBy&#91;x&#93;? I've looked through the definition and I agree, it's not clear what determinedBy is supposed to be doing?

### 3. BrianAlper - 3/10/25
Security: Public

Suggestion to use:

 



Group.characteristic.determinedBy&#91;x&#93;


Element Id
Group.characteristic.determinedBy&#91;x&#93;


Definition
Device or formula used to determine the characteristic value.


Short Display
Device or formula used to determine the characteristic value


Cardinality
0..1


Type
Reference([Device
https://build.fhir.org/device.html] &#124; DeviceDefinition &#124; DeviceMetric)&#124;Expression


&#91;x&#93; Note
See Choice of Datatypes for further information about how to use &#91;x&#93;


Requirements
Need to communicate when a device is used for the characteristic measurement, or a formula is used to calculate the characteristic value.


Summary
false

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/10/25
Security: Public

This seems like two very different semantics.  You could easily have both - a formula as well as a device that was responsible.  Why not two elements?

### 5. BrianAlper - 3/10/25
Security: Public

The modeling for this element was at one time method&#91;x&#93; 0..* CodeableConcept | Reference | Expression, and method 0..* CodeableConcept was separated out with the assumption that you could have multiple concepts but only 1 device and only 1 formula.  But we did not account for using 1 device AND 1 formula at the same time.   Perhaps the determinedBy&#91;x&#93; could be separated into 2 elements:  determinedByDevice 0..1 Reference, determiendByFormula 0..1 Expression

### 6. BrianAlper - 3/13/25
Security: Public

The Group Resource is owned by FHIR-I. Suggestion to separate into determinedByDevice and determinedByFormula elements in the comments.

### 7. Gino Canessa - 3/24/25
Security: Public

We agree that the existing definition is not sufficient but are unclear about your proposed change and want to note that element is not modifying the code but rather explaining how to get the value for the code.

If you could update the definition or describe the key points you would like to see in the definition, we would appreciate it.

Thanks!

### 8. Gino Canessa - 4/7/25
Security: Public

FHIR-I is asking the people on this task to work on Zulip to create a cohesive set of how all these elements work together, with descriptions and proposed changes.

FHIR-I can then review the entire set together as a single task.  See https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179280-fhir.2Finfrastructure-wg/topic/Discussion.20of.20FHIR-43499

### 9. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/7/25
Security: Public

I would propose the following:

formula 0..1 Expression
Short: Formal algorithm to derive value
Definition: A CQL, FHIRPath, or other expression that is used to generate the value for this characteristic

determiner 0..1 Reference(Practitioner|PractitionerRole|Device|Organization)
Short: Who determines value
Definition: The entity who is expected to evaluate the characteristic value for candidate group members

### 10. BrianAlper - 5/19/25
Security: Public

The input desired is now available in the form of a draft branch at https://github.com/HL7/fhir/tree/Group-Characteristic-Explained/source/group

### 11. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/9/25
Security: Public

The PR proposes to allow determiner to also include DeviceDefinition and DeviceMetric.  FHIR-I is on board with the first, but think the second seems odd.  We're passing this to OO to get their opinion on whether DeviceMetric is an appropriate actor as 'something that can determine membership in a group'.

### 12. BrianAlper - 6/9/25
Security: Public

When specifying that a Group.characteristic.value&#91;x&#93; matching value is determined by a device with a particular set of parameters (but not a specific instance of the device), is the proper Resource to reference DeviceMetric or DeviceDefinition?

### 13. Elliot Silver - 6/10/25
Security: Public

DeviceMetric is a particular reading or setting on a specific device instance. Every DeviceMetric is tied to a Device instance. An "Oxygen flow rate setting" Observation would have an Observation.device of an "Oxygen flow rate setting" DeviceMetric that describes the adjustable range, etc. of the setting on a specific Device Instance. I don't think DeviceMetric is what you want here. At the current time, there is no "DeviceMetricDefinition" or way to capture "this device with X, Y, Z settings" or "this kind of device, with X, Y, Z settings".

I don't fully understand the ticket, but I don't think DeviceMetric belongs in that list.

### 14. BrianAlper - 6/10/25
Security: Public

The context is that the Group Resource has a repeatable Group.characteristic backbone element used to define the membership criteria for the group.   Each characteristic element has a code and value&#91;x&#93; pair of elements that specify the characteristic.   An example could be code=diagnosis and value=depression, or code=HbA1c and value=&gt;7%.   There is an optional Group.characteristic.determiner element that can reference a Resource representing the entity that determines the value for an observation that would be matched against Group.characteristic.   For example, 'diagnosis of depression' is different than 'diagnosis of depression by Dr. Smith' – the latter could reference Practitioner to express 'by Dr. Smith'.   If one wanted to specify 'HbA1c &gt; 7% by Device #123' then one could reference Device, but if one wants to specify 'HbA1c &gt; 7% by specific brand of a device and/or specific settings for that device' then what Resource would be referenced?   DeviceDefinition?

### 15. Elliot Silver - 6/10/25
Security: Public

if one wants to specify 'HbA1c &gt; 7% by specific brand of a device and/or specific settings for that device' then what Resource would be referenced?   DeviceDefinition?
To specify a reading by a specific brand of device, you'd use a DeviceDefinition, although Definition more closely models, well, a model than a brand. There isn't really a way to say "by brand" or "by type of device" (e.g. BP by finger monitor), although one could imagine a convention of using a partially filled out (contained?) DeviceDefinition that only lists the elements you want to filter on.

To say "for a device with certain settings", you could search for all observations of "volume = 11" and find the Devices that reported those observations (which may be indirect through a volume DeviceMetric). There isn't a way to say "Fender guitar amps turned up to 11" as a definition of the device.

None of those seem like unreasonable things to want to do, but they aren't current capabilities of Device/DeviceMetric/DeviceDefinition. I've filed https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51057 to expand Device-related capabilities, but addressing that may take a while. I'd suggest this ticket be closed based on current capabilities (so, only DeviceDefinition, not DeviceMetric).

### 16. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/16/25
Security: Public

Brian agrees to drop DeviceMetric, so moving this back to FHIR-I

