# FHIR-40496: Servers SHOULD check for the fhirVersion MIME-type parameter when processing this request.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/8/25
- **Created**: 2/21/23
- **Description**: Propose to change 
If a 404 Not Found is returned from the GET, FHIR (or the specified version) is not supported on the nominated service url. An ETag header SHOULD be returned with the Response. The value of the ETag header SHALL change if the returned resource changes.

Servers SHOULD check for the fhirVersion MIME-type parameter when processing this request.
to
If a 404 Not Found is returned from the GET, FHIR (or the specified version) is not supported on the nominated service url. Servers SHOULD check for the fhirVersion MIME-type parameter when processing this request.

An ETag header SHOULD be returned with the Response.

The value of the ETag header SHALL change if the returned resource changes.

 
(see below)
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40496
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.2.0.10 capabilities
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Servers SHOULD check for the fhirVersion MIME-type parameter when processing this request.

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40496

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 7/8/25
Security: Public

Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442

