# FHIR-44106: Consider how _lastUpdated (and Meta.lastUpdated) for facade servers

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Based on the call series 2024 Argonaut Project: Detecting and Reporting Changes, we recommend the following guidance:


	Servers SHOULD expose a method for clients to know if there are new or modified resources since their last polling time and advertise the mechanism in their CapabilityStatement.  For servers that are able to accurately populate Meta.lastUpdated , the preferred search is performed via the _lastUpdated search parameter as defined in the core FHIR specifications.  However, many servers are unable to populate this element accurately and work is in progress for an alternative search (see  FHIR-45012 - Extension for tracking changes in facade contexts) to provide similar functionality in a method suitable for those scenarios.  Also, as an alternative to search polling, work is in progress to enable Subscriptions for notifications on relevant events.
	For reference, if the optional Meta.lastUpdated element is populated (summary of rules from FHIR core specification):
	
		Any change in the resource implies a change in Meta.lastUpdated.
		Logically equivalent: a present and unchanged Meta.lastUpdated implies that there is no change in the resource.
		Note to clients that the most recent time does not necessarily reflect changes they have access to.  It is possible that a record has been changed and a client's view of the resource remains unchanged, for example if the client does not have authorization to see the changed data.
		Servers cannot populate Meta.lastUpdated if they cannot update it in accordance with the rules specified in the FHIR core specification.
		Supporting Meta.lastUpdated in a resource does not imply support for _lastUpdated searches.
		Supporting the _lastUpdated search parameter does not require use of Meta.lastUpdated - if a server has a way of reliably tracking changes to an instance, that mechanism can be used.
		Note: Updating the timestamp too frequently is better than missing updates (e.g., better off generating every time a resource is requested than mis-marking new data with an old timestamp)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/20/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Meta.lastUpdated has this definition:



When the resource last changed - e.g. when the version changed.






For façade servers, which don't store resources, this definition is a little tricky.  Especially if there isn't some room for "hand waving".

 

Some examples of why this definition is problematic:

	Facade servers generate resources on-the-fly in response to requests, so the strict interpretation of this definition means that lastUpdated is just always "now" (when the API request was processed.  This is of course not useful (or the intent).
	Facade servers will usually have an internal "record" rather than a "resource".  For example, an EHR may have a Patient "record that has hundreds or thousands of elements in the schema, some of which map to the Patient resource, but others that map to other resources like Coverage, CareTeam, etc.  Servers may know when the "record" changed, but that is not the same as when the resource is updated. 
	Facade servers may use static terminology mappings for some record types.  When those terminology mappings are updated, that could cause the rendered resources to change.  For example, if you have the wrong CPT code mapped to a procedure, and an IT admin fixes that mapping, then all Procedure resources would reflect that change, but the internal Procedure record would not have an updated timestamp.



US Core is considering how to roll out _lastUpdated support in FHIR-43659, but as part of that we realized that the core spec definition is just problematic in general for façade servers in ways that can lead to both false positives and false negatives in any practical implementations of _lastUpdated.

 

Request:  either consider updating the definition of lastUpdated to indicate that false positives and false negatives are allowed and possibly expected, especially for façade servers.  Alternatively, create a new parameter that has that flexibility which facade servers could choose to support instead of _lastUpdated.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44106
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/search.html#lastUpdated
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Consider how _lastUpdated (and Meta.lastUpdated) for facade servers
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44106

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/20/24
Security: Public

Based on the call series 2024 Argonaut Project: Detecting and Reporting Changes, we recommend the following guidance:


	Servers SHOULD expose a method for clients to know if there are new or modified resources since their last polling time and advertise the mechanism in their CapabilityStatement.  For servers that are able to accurately populate Meta.lastUpdated , the preferred search is performed via the _lastUpdated search parameter as defined in the core FHIR specifications.  However, many servers are unable to populate this element accurately and work is in progress for an alternative search (see  FHIR-45012 - Extension for tracking changes in facade contexts) to provide similar functionality in a method suitable for those scenarios.  Also, as an alternative to search polling, work is in progress to enable Subscriptions for notifications on relevant events.
	For reference, if the optional Meta.lastUpdated element is populated (summary of rules from FHIR core specification):
	
		Any change in the resource implies a change in Meta.lastUpdated.
		Logically equivalent: a present and unchanged Meta.lastUpdated implies that there is no change in the resource.
		Note to clients that the most recent time does not necessarily reflect changes they have access to.  It is possible that a record has been changed and a client's view of the resource remains unchanged, for example if the client does not have authorization to see the changed data.
		Servers cannot populate Meta.lastUpdated if they cannot update it in accordance with the rules specified in the FHIR core specification.
		Supporting Meta.lastUpdated in a resource does not imply support for _lastUpdated searches.
		Supporting the _lastUpdated search parameter does not require use of Meta.lastUpdated - if a server has a way of reliably tracking changes to an instance, that mechanism can be used.
		Note: Updating the timestamp too frequently is better than missing updates (e.g., better off generating every time a resource is requested than mis-marking new data with an old timestamp)

### 2. Gino Canessa - 7/8/25
Security: Public

Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442

