# FHIR-50530: RelativeTime definition is ambiguous

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Hans Buitendijk
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Lloyd McKenzie : Thank you for the resolution!  I noticed a typo I introduced in my suggestion that got carried into the disposition. "Describing the same moment time ..." should be "Describing the same moment of time ....." where I would be o.k. whether it is "of" or "in".
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/12/25
- **Created**: 4/30/25
- **Description**: The definition of RelativeTime creates unnecessary ambiguity by using "point in time" in the definition and when describing the exact moment of time using an offset of 0.  It is still a relative time with an offset of 0.  It would seem less confusion to just define RelativeTime as "RelativeTime is used to express an interval of time relative to an event defined in data types other than dateTime" and indicate through an example that the interval can be "0".  Additionally then would adjust the statement "4. Describing the exact moment of time (offset = 0), in which case offsetDuration.value = 0 and units are unnecessary." to state "Describing the same moment time as the relevant event (offset = 0), in which case offsetDuration.value = 0 and units are unnecessary."
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50530
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot3/datatypes.html#RelativeTime
- **Reporter**: Hans Buitendijk
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "A point in time or an interval of time relative to an event"
to "Expresses a time or time period as relative to the time of an event"

Will change 
"RelativeTime is used to express a point in time or an interval of time relative to an event defined in data types other than dateTime."
to
"RelativeTime is used to express a time or interval as relative to an event rather than as an explicit time value.  For example '3 hours after administering the drug' rather than 'Dec. 3, 2023 at 9:53am"

Will change 
"4. Describing the exact moment of time (offset = 0), in which case offsetDuration.value = 0 and units are unnecessary." 
to 
"4. Describing the same moment of time as the relevant event (offset = 0), in which case offsetDuration.value = 0 and units are unnecessary."

Will change
"Path to the element defining the point in time"
to
"Path to the element defining the basis for the relative time"

Will change
"Methods to express the point in time or interval in time ("offset") relative"
to
"Methods to express the time or interval ("offset") relative"
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: RelativeTime definition is ambiguous
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50530

## Comments

### 1. Hans Buitendijk - 5/12/25
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie : Thank you for the resolution!  I noticed a typo I introduced in my suggestion that got carried into the disposition. "Describing the same moment time ..." should be "Describing the same moment of time ....." where I would be o.k. whether it is "of" or "in".

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/12/25
Security: Public

Fixed

