# FHIR-53877: Clarify requirements to return HTTP 410 when reading deleted resource

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/9/26
- **Description**: A few comments on the first paragraph of the delete interaction description:

 

"A delete interaction means that the resource can no longer found through a search interaction. Subsequent non-version specific reads of the resource return a 410 Gone HTTP status code when the server wishes to indicate that the resource is deleted. For security reasons, the server may return other status codes as defined under Access Denied Response Handling. Upon successful deletion, or if the resource does not exist at all, the server should return either a 200 OK if the response contains a payload, or a 204 No Content with no response payload. Servers using the Asynchronous Interaction Request Pattern   may return a 202 Accepted, if the server wishes to be non-committal about the outcome of the delete."

 

-I had to read a few times to realize that the HTTP 410 response was for subsequent reads, whereas the 200, 204, and 202 responses were for the delete request itself. I wonder if moving the second and third sentences to the end of the paragraph would clear it up.

-It is unclear whether returning 410 by default (given no security considerations) is a SHALL or SHOULD level directive, or merely an informative suggestion.

-Some implementations will merely change elements on the resource (eg marking a status element as deleted) rather than actually deleting the resource from the database. It is feasible that some workflows may want to perform a standard read on a resource with status=deleted (or even return it in a search).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53877
- **Reporter**: DanielSchuster
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Clarify requirements to return HTTP 410 when reading deleted resource

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53877

## Comments

_No comments in export._
