# FHIR-57312: Define FHIRPath functions section() and entry() on Composition

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Is this an SD tracker or a FHIRPath tracker?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/29/26
- **Created**: 5/18/26
- **Description**: We should define two FHIRPath functions for use with the Composition resource. 

  section(id) // return any sections in the composition that match the criteria in the id

  entry(id) // return a resolved entry in the composition or section(s) that are the focus where the entry matches the criteria in the id 

These are short cut functions for FHIRPath fragments that are much more complex, which makes them much easier to use and work with. The key aspect of the functions is what can go in the id parameter.

For section(), id is one of:

	a slicename
	a code (uri#code)



for entry(), id is one of :

	a profile url
	a profile name (error if the name is unique in the context)
	a code that the target resource must have in the code element



All this can be done in long hand FHIRPath, but it's complicated. This approach simplifies the FHIRPath statements greatly, and makes it possible to do simple IPS profiles such as 

  Composition.section(%LOINC('8716-3')).entry(%LOINC('85354-9')).exists()

This expression is a rule on IPS says that there has to be a vital signs section, and that it has to have a blood pressure measurement. 

Other ways of saying this are much more complicated. This is sufficiently simple that the IG publisher can fully understand the intent of the statement, and present in a coherent tabular format, which wouldn't be possible using any other technique
- **Grouping**: [Composition, EH-Review]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57312
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Composition
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Define FHIRPath functions section() and entry() on Composition
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57312

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 5/29/26
Security: Public

Is this an SD tracker or a FHIRPath tracker?

### 2. Eric Haas - 5/29/26
Security: Public

Is this an SD tracker or fhir-path/ITS tracker?

### 3. Gay Dolin - 6/1/26
Security: Public

I think this is not the responsibility of SD

### 4. Gay Dolin - 6/1/26
Security: Public

I realize this tracker is relative to Composition, but should this be assigned to FHIR I - or to you or Gino Canessa or?

### 5. Joanne Dehnbostel - 6/4/26
Security: Public

This should be moved from Structured Documents  to FHIR-I.

