# FHIR-48958: Clarify expectations around canonical version uniqueness

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bryn Rhodes Can you join FHIR-I at some point in the new year to talk about this and how CRMI approaches this.  (Alternatively pick a quarter at the WGM.)
- **Assignee**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Comments**: 12/16/24
- **Created**: 12/6/24
- **Description**: During this Zulip discussion, there was a lot of discussion about the uniqueness expectations when resolving a specific canonical resource version.

My general understanding (and from the thread, at least a few others) is that resolving a specific canonical URL and version should always yield exactly one resource instance.

I had discovered at one point the exception for ValueSet resources (expanded or not), but believed that to be the only case.

In that thread, it was discussed that this is actually an expected case, despite what is documented in the section about resolving canonical references References:Choosing the right Canonical Reference.

If there is an expectation that canonical resources have multiple representations, we should document what the scenarios are and how to determine them.  Preferably with some sort of indication that 'this is the actual source of truth'.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48958
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Clarify expectations around canonical version uniqueness

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48958

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/16/24
Security: Public

Bryn Rhodes Can you join FHIR-I at some point in the new year to talk about this and how CRMI approaches this.  (Alternatively pick a quarter at the WGM.)

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/6/25
Security: Public

You can have multiple instances with the same url and version
	When that occurs, the expectation is that the 'definition' of the resource is consistent across all instances that share the same url and version - though what that means may vary by resource type
	
		We should set expectations for resources that could have multiple instances that clearly define what the rules are for being 'the same definition'
	
	
	Even though the definitions are the same, the full content of the resources may be legitimately different. 
	
		Examples:
		
			Value set w/ different expansions
			CodeSystem - different fragments vs. full
			StructureDefinition w/ different snapshot
			Questionnaire - assembled/unassembled
			Library - with or without compiled content
		
		
		We should set expectations for resources that can have multiple instances to indicate the types of variability that might exist (and why)
	
	
	We should have a way of distinguishing which of the instances is considered the 'source of truth' for editing purposes.
	
		Define a new 'authoritative' tag
	
	
	For 'computable' and 'executable' instances, it is possible for there to be instances that have different content based on different source content.  These should include a reference to the manifest that drove the generation of that instance.
	 
	?If a reference to a canonical resource needs to identify the specific computable/executable instance to use, we should have a means of doing that?



 

Will start a Confluence page that defines proposed updates to various parts of the core specification to address the above and will point to it on Zulip.  Will iterate then bring back a firmer proposal for vote.

### 3. Michael Lawley - 1/6/25
Security: Public

I think these rules should account for work-in-progress instances and, in particular, pre-release versions. For example SemVer with X.Y.Z-PRERELEASE

