# FHIR-40359: Add more clarity around REST behavior and redirects.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I don't see how the first part isn't already explicit: if the capability statement says something is supported, it must be supported conformantly. Clarifying redirects is something we should do. I don't see how canonical URLs are relevant in this regard, it's a question of how the RESTful API behaves
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/30/23
- **Created**: 1/31/23
- **Description**: From the discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179202-terminology/topic/VSAC.20Appending.20Version.20to.20ID

Need to make explicit:

If the conformance statement hosted at &#91;base&#93;/metadata asserts support for resource foo, then all GETs performed against &#91;base&#93;/foo/&#91;someString&#93; SHALL behave in conformance with FHIR's REST rules, except that redirects are permitted in limited circumstances.

Then we need to identify what those circumstances are.  E.g.:

	can a canonical URL redirect to the instance that is the most current version?  Does it matter if the canonical matches the id of the original version?
	can a merged resource redirect to the survivor?
- **Grouping**: [R6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40359
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Add more clarity around REST behavior and redirects.

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40359

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 1/30/23
Security: Public

I don't see how the first part isn't already explicit: if the capability statement says something is supported, it must be supported conformantly. Clarifying redirects is something we should do. I don't see how canonical URLs are relevant in this regard, it's a question of how the RESTful API behaves

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/31/23
Security: Public

If I see 'references' to resources, I'd expect to be able to perform a read on them.  Same detail if I receive a resource in a search result.  We've always said that servers are allowed to do 'extra' things beyond what the conformance statement says.  I don't think we've said anywhere that having a URL that mirrors the syntax of a RESTful URL but hasn't been shared in a way that tells you it's a RESTful URL must always behave as if it were a RESTful URL.  If that is, indeed, the rule, we need to make that explicit.

