# FHIR-48326: Remove code and label from invariant sdf-9

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 9/19/24
- **Description**: Remove invariant code and label from sdf-9,

See this chat:  https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Why.20no.20root.20label.2Fcode.2Frequirements.3F

 

The rationale for this invariant is flawed.  (See https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-6040) because there is no equivalent for code or label in StructureDefinition root.  For example, when constructing an extension based on a standard concept in terminology such as  LOINC there is no way to reference the code in the root.

This change would be is consistent with a normative resources since previously conformant resource instances would still be conformant. However, it would not be backward compatible since future instances would not conform to prior versions.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48326
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureDefinition
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/structuredefinition.html
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Removing this portion of sdf-9 is technically allowed under our inter-version compatibility rules for normative artifacts because removal of the constraint does not invalidate any previous instances.

In looking through the history, DSTU2 originally had a 'code' element on the root of StructureDefinition.  However, its definition was distinct from ElementDefinition.code, meaning that the assertion even then that StructureDefinition.code had the same purpose as StructureDefinition.snapshot.element[0].code was at best questionable.  Similarly, the meaning of StructureDefinition.title and StructureDefinition.snapshot.element[0].label is similarly distinct.  The first is what to call the model when it's on its own.  The second is what to use as a 'prompt' to set context when capturing or displaying information for a model.  While these *can* be the same, they don't need to be.

We *do* believe that StructureDefinition.purpose and StructureDefinition.snapshot.element[0].requirements are essentially the same and so it makes sense to retain sdf-9 for that reason.

 

We will therefore relax sdf-9 and no longer refer to 'code' or 'label' and will leave it in place only for 'requirements'.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Remove code and label from invariant sdf-9
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48326

## Comments

_No comments in export._
