# FHIR-43508: Clarify registry.fhir.org subscription topic discovery

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The proposed disposition suggests that the registry will have more topics as IGs are published, but that implies the topics in the registry are related to IGs, and not implementers.  The spec talks about implementers, not IG authors, so there is a bit of a mismatch (but probably one that can be addressed with editor discretion - I'm not objecting to the disposition).

 

That said, which of those two (implementers or IG authors) are expected to be authoring topics (my thought: probably both).  It seems straightforward for IG authors to publish their topics in the registry, but what is the method we expect implementers to use?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/1/24
- **Created**: 1/4/24
- **Description**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptions.html#finding-topics suggests re-using topics in https://registry.fhir.org I went there looking for a list of topics, but had trouble finding them, though I did eventually find some.

I'm not sure if this is a feature request to https://registry.fhir.org for better filtering options, or a suggestion to the core spec to better explain how to discover existing topics.  Or maybe the link we have in the core spec includes some default search filters like https://registry.fhir.org/results?latestFilter=true&amp;resourceContextFilter=%22instance%22&amp;resourceFilter=%5B%22SubscriptionTopic%22%5D

 

I think I ended up finding a few (two examples in R4 and R4 packages, and handful in DSUBm).  But it felt a little odd to such a strong recommendation to re-use existing topics, when there really weren't any existing topics (except DSUBm).   Should we wait until we have at least a handful of topics in the registry before we send folks there?

 

I don't feel super strongly here, it was just weird to see such a strong recommendation  to reuse topics but then not have anything there to actually reuse.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43508
- **Related Page(s)**: Subscriptions Framework
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptions.html#finding-topics
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Registry support appears to be working correctly, but there are few canonical topics that have already been published to the point they appear there.

Propose adding a note in the specification that topic definition is still in the early stages and that as IGs are published more will become available.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify registry.fhir.org subscription topic discovery
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43508

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 2/1/24
Security: Public

The proposed disposition suggests that the registry will have more topics as IGs are published, but that implies the topics in the registry are related to IGs, and not implementers.  The spec talks about implementers, not IG authors, so there is a bit of a mismatch (but probably one that can be addressed with editor discretion - I'm not objecting to the disposition).

 

That said, which of those two (implementers or IG authors) are expected to be authoring topics (my thought: probably both).  It seems straightforward for IG authors to publish their topics in the registry, but what is the method we expect implementers to use?

### 2. Cooper Thompson - 2/1/24
Security: Public

Like if US Core defines a topic, I can see that getting into the registry.  But if Epic defines a bunch of our own topics, will those be in the registry?  The current spec topic talks about implementers getting stuff in to the registry, not IG authors.  But the resolution here is about IG authors, not implementers.  Is the intent of the registry to have topics from implementers, IG authors, or both.  Clarifying that might be useful.  Given the openness of the resolution, I expect that can be done via editors discretion.  So again, no objections to the resolution.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

