# FHIR-44629: We need to surface expansion parameters in IG publications

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Carmela A. Couderc
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Hi Lloyd McKenzie - do you have a request for a change to something that TI is responsible for?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/28/25
- **Created**: 1/31/24
- **Description**: Expansion parameters determine how vocabulary expansions work.  They may have a bearing on how systems are expected to conform.  For example, if a specification has expansion parameters that limit it to a specific release or version of SNOMED or some other code system, the intention may be that implementers are limited to that release or version.  However, at present, we don't surface those terminology constraints in a visible way to readers, nor do we make clear whether those constraints are for publishing convenience, or rules for conformance.  Perhaps we need distinct expansion parameters for each?  In any event, we definitely need to make this information visible to others so implementers are clear on what rules they must follow for their terminologies.  They will potentially also want access to the parameters so they can use when testing.

Finally, we're not currently examining the differences between expansion parameters between an IG and the expansion parameters of the IGs it depends on.  What happens when these are inconsistent?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44629
- **Related Page(s)**: (many)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: We need to surface expansion parameters in IG publications
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44629

## Comments

### 1. Carmela A. Couderc - 7/28/25
Security: Public

Hi Lloyd McKenzie - do you have a request for a change to something that TI is responsible for?

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/28/25
Security: Public

Grahame indicated that the policy questions raised in the ticket are TIs to land.  Actual rendering will be handled by FHIR-I, but TI will need to decide:

	Can there be distinct parameters for IG publication vs. downstream validation?
	Are there rules for consistency of terminology parameters between an IG and those it inherits from, and if so, what are those rules?
	How should terminology parameters be surfaced in IGs?  (Separate page?  Same page as something else?  What should they look like?)



Once those things are landed, you can put in an issue against the IG Publisher and validator to "make it so" and FHIR-I will take up the actual application of the policy.

### 3. Carmela A. Couderc - 8/4/25
Security: Public

Discussed on the 2025-08-04 TI tracker call.

	will add to the joint FHIR-I session Q2 Wednesday September 2025
	discuss w/Lloyd



color: Color value is invalid Discussion:

color: Color value is invalid There are defaults that the IG publisher uses for expansions. So - there are already different expansion parameters for publication and for downstream validation. 

color: Color value is invalid It makes sense to surface the parameters used in the expansion, and to indicate which ones are defaults. 

color: Color value is invalid Implementation specific? 

color: Color value is invalid Contexts

	color: Color value is invalid producing/publishing an IG
	color: Color value is invalid implementation (describe guidance on expansion parameter expectations - e.g., language, code system versions)
	color: Color value is invalid bring up at the SNOMED on FHIR call 



color: Color value is invalid Looking at the second sentence in the ticket description: They may have a bearing on how systems are expected to conform.  

color: Color value is invalid If value set expansion parameters have a bearing on how systems are expected to conform, then that information should be included in the value set definition. 

color: Color value is invalid The IG publisher makes some of the expansion parameters available (CLD, code system version).  Note we cannot assume that the IG publisher is used. 

Suggestion - add a policy.

Any IG publisher should always render (in the HTML) all parameters used in a value set expansion. This includes the core specification. 

color: Color value is invalid KEY TO RESOLVING THIS TICKET: If relevant for conformance, parameter values should be included in the value set definition (e.g. code system version, active only)

color: Color value is invalid Question for Lloyd McKenzie How can expansion parameters have a bearing on conformance. We will either schedule discussion for this ticket at a TI tracker call or at the September WGM.

### 4. Michael Lawley - 8/5/25
Security: Public

Discussed on the SNOMED on FHIR WG call.

Members wanted to understand how expansion parameters can have a bearing on conformance expectations.

Would like to see some examples to illustrate the issues.

### 5. Marc Duteau - 9/17/25
Security: Public

Motion to move to FHIR-I with the following comment: Gino/Reuben : 25-0-0

FHIR-I will handle both the task of surfacing expansion parameters and the task of not inheriting expansion parameters

### 6. Bryn Rhodes - 9/29/25
Security: Public

Tracker to update the language around this in CRMI:

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52903

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/1/25
Security: Public

Reuben Daniels Can you make sure this is on the TI agenda for the WGM for our Wed. am joint?

### 8. Bryn Rhodes - 2/9/26
Security: Public

I just noticed that the publisher is using a "tools" url for this extension, but if the extension is supposed to be used on the ImplementationGuide and present in the published package, shouldn't the extension be in the extensions pack, not the tools ig?

