# FHIR-52912: operations for large resources general feedback and has typos

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Some recent discussion in zulip:  https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/Dealing.20with.20Large.20resources
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/9/25
- **Created**: 9/17/25
- **Description**: While reviewing FHIR-37648...

PA would like to use this functionality however we are still missing:

	How to detect the large list in the first place - specific exception?
	How to request the complete list anyway
	Update the core properties outside the list



Some examples of properties we expect may get large are:

	Encounter.participants
	Encounter.location
	Account.coverage



There are two options we could consider for allowing a client to detect large resources: (or both/either options at server discretion):

a) Error/exception

This should really be a specific error code to be able to (http status?, and op outcome issue type - (http://hl7.org/fhir/issue-type too-long or too-costly?)

The error/exception approach has implications on searching, as if one resource is too large, that may need to abort the entire search. (an option, though not preferred)

b) Auto-subset

If the server decides that the resource is too large to return complete, then the server should return the resource with the subset meta tag (and maybe another meta tag to indicate this specific type of subsetting?), and exclude ANY participants or locations, and the client would require the use of the $filter operation to request the content.

	How can the client know which property was "too large" - an extention?



Either of these still don't provide a way for the client to get the large resource.

Recommend adding additional fields to the $filter operation to support these.

How do we "limit" the list coming back to something that the client is looking for.

property (e.g. "Encounter.participant")

filter - start/end date

Extension indicating which properties have been filtered

"Encounter.participant" // at worst include an indexer

"CodeSystem.concept.concept.concept"

"Questionnaire.item.item.item"

The remaining issue is how to update the large resource excluding the large set - is patch the only option - we thought that required the complete retrieval.

Maybe permit update with subset, provided the extension for the "missing" backbone is indicating it, and then require the $add/ $remove to update the backbone.

Group currently has no way to update the core elements, or is that use add with nothing to do it.

 

Should there be an update item option too?
(or do we need to remove, then add back in)

 

Also noted these typos:

Remove sections have copy paste issues from add.
remove two items to a Group
Example invocation: add two items to a List (in the remove example)
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52912
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-37648: Better approach for large lists of participants in Encounter.participants
- **Related Page(s)**: operations
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/operations-for-large-resources.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: operations for large resources general feedback and has typos

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52912

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 12/9/25
Security: Public

Some recent discussion in zulip:  https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/Dealing.20with.20Large.20resources

