# FHIR-42931: Standard search criteria are saying repetitions aren't allowed

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Believe this is already resolved now.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/30/23
- **Created**: 10/15/23
- **Description**: I'm pretty sure our intention was that if a SearchParameter didn't say anything about and, or or modifiers, that and and or are both allowed, and so are all modifiers.

However, if you go here: https://build.fhir.org/group-search.html (as an example), you'll see that all of the SearchParameters say "The parameter cannot repeat or have multiple values".

Can we:

a) Confirm our understanding of the meaning of omitting 'and' and 'or' in a SearchParameter definition, and

b) Figure out what we want to do wrt all of the R5 standard search parameters?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42931
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SearchParameter
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/group-search.html
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: *Repetitions:*

(a) FHIR already define a meaning if missing for multipleAnd and multipleOr: 

> "If not declared, then it is up to server discretion whether multiple 'and' repetitions are allowed"

We should make the rendered table consistent with this, so instead of

> Multiples	The parameter cannot repeat or have multiple values

The rendering of Search Params should have two rows (for Multiple And + Multiple Or) and explicitly convey a meaning-if-missing (i.e., state that it's up to server discretion).

(b) We don't have methodology for deciding when to require multipleAnd / multipleOr. We don't have a general / automatic way to decide these, so will leave them off by default and workgroups can add them in manually if they're required for specific Search Parameters.

*Modifiers*

Currently there's no way to express a distinction between "there are no modifiers allowed" and "there are no restrictions on which modifiers are allowed".  https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#modifiers:~:text=Search%20parameter%20definitions%20MAY%20include%20a%20list%20of%20allowed%20modifiers describes the situation. Essentially when no "modifiers" array is present, there is no guarantee that any modifiers will work, but clients can still try, and see what happens :-)
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Standard search criteria are saying repetitions aren't allowed
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42931

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 10/30/23
Security: Public

Believe this is already resolved now.

