# FHIR-51587: Core spec FHIRpath should be validated

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: One related discussion on Zulip: Validation of FHIRpath within core spec.  Issue is around the use of resolve() within search parameters.

A common use is in parameters like clinical-patient that use it to check types: {{Account.​subject.​where(resolve() is Patient)}}.

A more problematic use is to bypass chaining, such as Specimen.container.device.resolve().owner.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/6/25
- **Created**: 7/29/25
- **Description**: The FHIRpath used in the cores spec should be validated.

For example, search parameters should ensure that only existing elements are referenced; extension contexts should be valid; constraints should pass or fail under the right conditions.

Ideally this should be more than a simple syntax check.

Ideally, a FHIRpath validation failure should "break the build" to prevent bad (or no-longer valid) FHIRpath from getting in, but this may be too harsh.
- **Grouping**: [Applied]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51587
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Core spec FHIRpath should be validated

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51587

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 8/6/25
Security: Public

One related discussion on Zulip: Validation of FHIRpath within core spec.  Issue is around the use of resolve() within search parameters.

A common use is in parameters like clinical-patient that use it to check types: {{Account.​subject.​where(resolve() is Patient)}}.

A more problematic use is to bypass chaining, such as Specimen.container.device.resolve().owner.

### 2. Brian Postlethwaite - 10/22/25
Security: Public

DO NOT APPLY THIS ONE - simple subset doesn't contain where, this isn't the purpose of the simple subset - its purpose is for direct property referencing, not searching/finding elements based on criteria.

### 3. Brian Postlethwaite - 10/22/25
Security: Public

I believe this is really meant to be a ticket to apply to the kindling publish process to ensure that not only are the fhirpath expressions valid (and touching real properties) but also checking the return type of the expression to ensure that it is a valid/expected datatype for the search parameters search type. e.g. ensure that you don't get a Backbone element going into a token, or a string going into a date search.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/3/25
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive with Modification made 2025-08-18 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve / Corey Spears : 13-0-1//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Correction; Version: null)//Add the following paragraphs to:

	the Search Parameters notes under a new section "Use of FHIRPath in Expressions"
	the SearchParameter.expression element definition as an additional comment




While SearchParameter.expression allows for the full use of FHIRPath, this specification restricts expressions to the "simple" subset.


Including resolve() in a search parameter definition makes it difficult to support for transactional servers. For that reason, this specification does not define parameters that link across resource instance boundaries.  This specification does use search parameters with resolve() to narrow types (e.g., Observation.subject.resolve() is Patient ). We recommend that other specifications follow the same practice - chaining is the mechanism defined to search across resource boundaries.

Add the following to fhirpath.html#simple:

	Link to SearchParameter.expression (with a note that it applies on the core spec)





Will add tooling that validates the above rules for the core specification as an Error in the core spec and a Warning otherwise.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/3/25
Security: Public

Motion to re-open: Grahame Grieve/Brian Postlethwaite: 15-0-0

