# FHIR-49704: Need to clarify expectations and workflow around SearchParameter derivations

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Its unclear how to apply this extension to a US Core SearchParameter to declare it compliance to the FHIR Core SP.   Options

	Apply the extension to the US Core SP only and reference the SP in the CapabiilityStatement.
	Apply the extension to the US Core CapabiilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam and should the context for combinations SP extension be added too?
	1 and 2
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/20/25
- **Created**: 1/29/25
- **Description**: In FHIR-I, there was a request for clarity around tickets:

	https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48876 (CGP): How to deal with searchparameters in the package that only convey expectations
	https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46036 (CGP): Derive composite search parameters for derived normal parameters



The question is centered around a set of conflicts:

	Core-defined search parameters leave elements like multipleAnd as implementer discretion
	There is no method, other than a SearchParameter definition, to declare support for those elements.
	Since there is no multiple inheritance, servers are thus unable to declare support for two different derived parameters, even if they are compatible.



This results in servers being unable to say they conform to, for example, two different national profiles that both apply the same rules.

My understanding is that this scenario then leads to authors recommending that servers do not use their SearchParameter definitions, since it is problematic.

If we allow for declaring support of those requirements in another place (e.g., CapabilityStatement, Feature Capability IG), IGs would be able to describe requirements and servers would be able to advertise support more consistently.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49704
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SearchParameter
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need to clarify expectations and workflow around SearchParameter derivations
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49704

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 5/20/25
Security: Public

Its unclear how to apply this extension to a US Core SearchParameter to declare it compliance to the FHIR Core SP.   Options

	Apply the extension to the US Core SP only and reference the SP in the CapabiilityStatement.
	Apply the extension to the US Core CapabiilityStatement.rest.resource.searchParam and should the context for combinations SP extension be added too?
	1 and 2

