# FHIR-41478: Clarify when OID and GUID identifiers, etc. must use RFC 3986 system and format

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Rosemary Hofstede
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Superseded by FHIR-45479
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/27/25
- **Created**: 6/21/23
- **Description**: From https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Distinguishing.20OID.20identifiers/near/366559499 (June 15 through June 16 approximately) it appears that there is some ambiguity about when OIDs and GUIDs are permitted/required to use the urn:ietf:rfc:3986 system and urn:oid: or urn:uuid format.

We should clarify if any system or IG can declare certain uses of OIDs/GUIDs are outside the scope of the urn:ietf:rfc:3986 system or if that capability is reserved to just HL7.

We should also clarify that if a use of OIDs/GUIDs is outside the urn:ietf:rfc:3986 system, whether the values are still permitted/required to have the prefix urn:oid: or urn:uuid: (and any other format requirements, like lowercase).

For convenience, we should point out that the use of OIDs/GUIDs that use the RFC3986 system might be distinguished by identifier.type; while OIDs/GUIDs that use other systems might be distinguished by either system or type.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41478
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/datatypes.html#identifier
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will reword:

"If the identifier value itself is naturally a globally unique URI (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part), then the {{system}} SHALL be "{{{}urn:ietf:rfc:3986{}}}", and the URI is in the {{value}} (OIDs and UUIDs using urn:oid: and urn:uuid: - see [note on the V3 mapping|https://build.fhir.org/datatypes-mappings.html#ii] and the [examples|https://build.fhir.org/datatypes-examples.html#Identifier]). Naturally globally unique identifiers are those for which no other [system has been assigned|https://build.fhir.org/identifier-registry.html] and where the value of the identifier is reasonably expected to not be re-used. Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind."

to

"UUIDs and OIDs are sometimes selected as a 'style' of identifier in contexts of use that do not intrinsically require the use of a UUID or OID.  For example, as an internal patient or order number.  In such situations, the UUID or OID can be sent as the Identifier.value (typically with no prefix) and the Identifier.system is defined by whomever is managing that collection of identifiers.  However, in other cases, an identifier will be explicitly -defined as "the OID for X" or "the UUID for Y".  In this case, the system SHALL be "{{{}urn:ietf:rfc:3986{}}}" and the URI is in the {{value}} with an appropriate prefix to express that value as a URI (urn:oid: and  urn:uuid: - see [note on the V3 mapping|https://build.fhir.org/datatypes-mappings.html#ii] and the [examples|https://build.fhir.org/datatypes-examples.html#Identifier])"
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify when OID and GUID identifiers, etc. must use RFC 3986 system and format
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41478

## Comments

### 1. Rosemary Hofstede - 2/27/25
Security: Public

Superseded by FHIR-45479

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 11/2/25
Security: Public

merged with outcomes from 45479

