# FHIR-54531: Recommend access to original document is tricky

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Khalid Shahin
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bas van den Heuvel 
We agree that there could be clarifying text in regards to "3.4.1.1 Document Presentation" but FHIR-I is responsible for this change so they need to discuss it.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/19/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: Wherever the data from the document is displayed to a user, there SHOULD always be a way for the user to access a presentation of the original document




What does this mean? Is this intended to be read as that all resources extracted from a document need to retain a link to the original document (i.e. in the narrative and possibly in Resource.meta.source). 

Requiring this requires the system to keep those reference in place which requires the source system to retain the original document. Is this the intended behavior?

If this is important, and the data is not stored in the Narrative, please provide guidance to where this information is stored and how a system displaying the resource can detect that it is required to present this information. Maybe by specifying an extension for it.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54531
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Recommend access to original document is tricky

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54531

## Comments

### 1. Khalid Shahin - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Bas van den Heuvel 
We agree that there could be clarifying text in regards to "3.4.1.1 Document Presentation" but FHIR-I is responsible for this change so they need to discuss it.

