# FHIR-54515: Document Bundle and referred documents

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Khalid Shahin
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bas van den Heuvel 
This belongs to FHIR-I. But Structured Documents on May 19, 2026 agrees with the suggestion. We believe there is a text error on the page where it says "The composition set: the single Composition resource" should instead be worded "The composition set: the first Composition resource" because there could be multiple Composition resources in the Bundle.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/19/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: The composition set: the single Composition resource, and the resources it links to
	The supporting information: Any resources that are part of the graph of resources that reference or are referenced from the composition set, either directly or indirectly (e.g., recursively in a chain). Such references SHALL use Reference.reference, canonical or a URI See Graph-connected Bundles for further details.
	Supporting Collateral: A Binary resource containing a stylesheet (as described below)




So a Composition that refers to another Composition by reference cannot include the referred document. In what way should such reference be made?

Do we really want to be this strict?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54515
- **Related Page(s)**: Documents
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "The composition set: the single Composition resource, and the resources it links to"
to
"The composition set: the root Composition resource, and the resources it links to"

In the notes will add a section: "Documents referencing other documents" with the following content:

"In some cases a document may reference another document and include that as part of the packaged/attested content.  There are three options:
 * Refer to the Composition that defines the target document (and potentially include it in the Bundle),
 * Refer to a DocumentReference that itself points to the target document Bundle, or
 * Embed the target document Bundle in the current document

The last option is not preferred.  The choice of the first two options is driven by whether there is a need to refer to the entire package, or merely the definitional concept of the target document (as well as which resource is available to reference/include)."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Document Bundle and referred documents
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54515

## Comments

### 1. Khalid Shahin - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Bas van den Heuvel 
This belongs to FHIR-I. But Structured Documents on May 19, 2026 agrees with the suggestion. We believe there is a text error on the page where it says "The composition set: the single Composition resource" should instead be worded "The composition set: the first Composition resource" because there could be multiple Composition resources in the Bundle.

