# FHIR-45479: Clarify use of namespaces for globally unique identifiers

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Morten Ernebjerg
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: As pointed out in the linked Zulip thread, there has already been discussions on closely related topics. As far as I could tell, it is this Zulip discussion focussed on the use of OID for DICOM images: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Distinguishing.20OID.20identifiers . There is a also a related Jira ticket which (as far as I can tell) led to a previous update of the section discussed here: FHIR-19602.

My tentative conclusions (at this point unconfirmed) from this previous discussion were the following:

	It is legal to define custom identifier namespaces identified by a custom URL, even if the identifier values are globally unique (urn:ietf:rfc:3986 is used only if no such system is defined). In these cases, the custom URL can be used in Identfier.system.
	Anyone can define such custom identifier namespace URLs. They should be published (e.g. as part of an IG) but do not need to appear in the official HL7 list of registered identifier namespaces. This is one point where the thread consensus is not quite clear, but I hope my reading is correct!
	If you have a custom identifier namespace (identified by a custom URL) in which the values are UUIDs, then you should not prefix the UUIDs with urn:uuid: when using them in Identifier.value (i.e. not make them URIs). Instead, you should just use the "unadorned" UUID strings and reserve the urn:uuid:-form for cases where the system is urn:ietf:rfc:3986.
	If you have UUID identifier values but there is no custom URL defined (so that the system must be urn:ietf:rfc:3986), Identfier.type (or possibly Identifier.assigner) can be used to identify specific "subspecies" of identifiers.



If this reading is correct, those seem to be reasonable rules. However, I still do not think this is what someone reading the Identifier-documentation would understand (e.g. it was not what I took away). In particular, the existing formulation "(...) a globally unique URI (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part)" seems to suggest that a UUID is automatically a globally unique URI (and hence must use urn:ietf:rfc:3986) which does not seem correct.

I appreciate that the SHALL-sentence is normative and cannot be altered. A possible minimal change would be to add a further clarifying sentence to the relevant paragraph (after "Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind.") to explicitly allow custom identifier system with globally unique values. E.g. something like:

"However, it is also allowed to assign and use custom systems that use globally unique identifier values, including UUIDs."

If it's a rule, one could add the comment that UUIDs used in custom system must not be prefixed with "urn:uuid:".
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/10/24
- **Created**: 5/5/24
- **Description**: The documentation of the identifier datatype currently states the following:

If the identifier value itself is naturally a globally unique URI (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part), then the system SHALL be "urn:ietf:rfc:3986", and the URI is in the value (OIDs and UUIDs using urn:oid: and urn:uuid: - see note on the V3 mapping and the examples). Naturally globally unique identifiers are those for which no other system has been assigned and where the value of the identifier is reasonably expected to not be re-used. Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind.

This formulation leaves it unclear to which extent you can use custom identifier namespace (in Identifier.system) for which the values happen to be globally unique. Specifically,  the first sentence seems to imply that a UUID is a URI, which would mean that the standard namespace always has to be used for UUID values. Likewise, the meaning of the term "naturally globally unique identifiers" is not quite clear from the second sentence (it does not seem to be a standard technical term - indeed, the FHIR datatypes page is the unique Google hit for a search for this exact term). Specifically, it is unclear whether this term includes any identifier for which the values can, by design, be expected to be globally unique (e.g. sufficiently large random numbers).

My expectation is that it should certainly be allowed to set up custom namespaces for which the identifiers are globally unique (including cases where they are UUIDs in one of the standard formats). For instance, a company could perfectly well set up a product ID system for which the assigned IDs are large random numbers that will effectively never reoccur. In such cases, the custom system URL provides helpful information for data consumers, indicating the type of identifier and hence also how to resolve it. Should this, in fact, be disallowed, that would thus seem to be problematic on its own.

The request here is that the formulation be amended to make the intent clearer. This would include both

	making it clear that using globally unique values (including UUIDs) as identifiers in custom namespaces is allowed
	making it clearer under which circumstances the namespace urn:ietf:rfc:3986 is indeed required (presumably when the values are random URIs and are prefixed with the urn:uuid: schema tag?)



Related Zulip thread: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Namespaces.20for.20identifiers.20that.20happen.20to.20be.20globally.20unique
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45479
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.28.0.13
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/datatypes.html#Identifier
- **Reporter**: Morten Ernebjerg
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will revise "If the identifier value itself is naturally a globally unique URI (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part), then the {{system}} SHALL be "{{{}urn:ietf:rfc:3986{}}}", and the URI is in the {{value}} (OIDs and UUIDs using urn:oid: and urn:uuid: - see [note on the V3 mapping|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/datatypes-mappings.html#ii] and the [examples|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/datatypes-examples.html#Identifier]). Naturally globally unique identifiers are those for which no other [system has been assigned|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/identifier-registry.html] and where the value of the identifier is reasonably expected to not be re-used. Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind."

to "Identifiers are expected to be globally unique by nature of the combination of system and value.  In some cases, the 'value' element is already globally unique independent of Identifier.system.  Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part).  In such a case, an Identifier.system [may be established|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/identifier-registry.html] by the assigner or community to establish the 'context' in which the identifier is used.  

When using globally unique identifiers that are expressible as URIs as a value, a system SHALL be provided. If there is no assigned system, then the system SHALL be "{{{}urn:ietf:rfc:3986{}}}" and the value is expressed as a URI (OIDs and UUIDs using urn:oid: and urn:uuid: - see [note on the V3 mapping|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/datatypes-mappings.html#ii] and the [examples|https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r5/datatypes-examples.html#Identifier])."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify use of namespaces for globally unique identifiers
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45479

## Comments

### 1. Morten Ernebjerg - 5/10/24
Security: Public

As pointed out in the linked Zulip thread, there has already been discussions on closely related topics. As far as I could tell, it is this Zulip discussion focussed on the use of OID for DICOM images: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Distinguishing.20OID.20identifiers . There is a also a related Jira ticket which (as far as I can tell) led to a previous update of the section discussed here: FHIR-19602.

My tentative conclusions (at this point unconfirmed) from this previous discussion were the following:

	It is legal to define custom identifier namespaces identified by a custom URL, even if the identifier values are globally unique (urn:ietf:rfc:3986 is used only if no such system is defined). In these cases, the custom URL can be used in Identfier.system.
	Anyone can define such custom identifier namespace URLs. They should be published (e.g. as part of an IG) but do not need to appear in the official HL7 list of registered identifier namespaces. This is one point where the thread consensus is not quite clear, but I hope my reading is correct!
	If you have a custom identifier namespace (identified by a custom URL) in which the values are UUIDs, then you should not prefix the UUIDs with urn:uuid: when using them in Identifier.value (i.e. not make them URIs). Instead, you should just use the "unadorned" UUID strings and reserve the urn:uuid:-form for cases where the system is urn:ietf:rfc:3986.
	If you have UUID identifier values but there is no custom URL defined (so that the system must be urn:ietf:rfc:3986), Identfier.type (or possibly Identifier.assigner) can be used to identify specific "subspecies" of identifiers.



If this reading is correct, those seem to be reasonable rules. However, I still do not think this is what someone reading the Identifier-documentation would understand (e.g. it was not what I took away). In particular, the existing formulation "(...) a globally unique URI (e.g. an OID, a UUID, or a URI with no trailing local part)" seems to suggest that a UUID is automatically a globally unique URI (and hence must use urn:ietf:rfc:3986) which does not seem correct.

I appreciate that the SHALL-sentence is normative and cannot be altered. A possible minimal change would be to add a further clarifying sentence to the relevant paragraph (after "Typically, these are absolute URIs of some kind.") to explicitly allow custom identifier system with globally unique values. E.g. something like:

"However, it is also allowed to assign and use custom systems that use globally unique identifier values, including UUIDs."

If it's a rule, one could add the comment that UUIDs used in custom system must not be prefixed with "urn:uuid:".

