# FHIR-56142: Request.intent has no escape valve

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2026-04-13 00:00:00.0 with vote Jose Costa Teixeira/Reinhard Egelkraut: 4-0-0//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//# We will add Other (from data absent reason) to the value set.

	We will add the following guidance into the 'notes' section in a section titled "Choosing an intent code":



"In most cases, a sending system will know the specific intent code to transmit.  Systems SHOULD transmit the most specific code applicable.  I.e. It is better to transmit "filler-order" or "instance-order" than just "order". However, if a system is not sure of which more specific code applies (because their system doesn't differentiate), it is acceptable to transmit a higher-level code.  Consuming systems SHOULD be able to handle both generic and specific codes.

In rare circumstances, a system might have legacy or external data that does not differentiate whether the record represents a plan, proposal, or order.  In this situation, the system SHOULD use an 'intent' of "proposal" as it is the safest and most encompassing concept.  Systems that infer intent in this way should never be used to initiate workflow.

The 'Other' code is reserved for use where none of the existing codes are applicable.  In most cases, this will be when expressing a concept introduced in a future version of FHIR that needs to be conveyed in an older version of FHIR."
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/13/26
- **Created**: 3/20/26
- **Description**: The element Request.intent is a mandatory element with a required binding, but appears to have neither an 'unknown' or 'other' concept, which can make the containing element impossible to populate in some cases. Please add 'unknown', 'other', or some equivalent escape valve concept to the value set.

Note:  this same change request was logged against several other resources that bind their intent element to the ValueSet http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/request-intent, such that if this Jira is found persuasive, it would resolve these other JIRAs as well.
FHIR-55322 (CommunicationRequest)
FHIR-55275 (ServiceRequest)
FHIR-55262 (DeviceRequest)
FHIR-55267 (NutritionOrder)
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-56142
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Request Pattern
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/valueset-request-intent.html
- **Reporter**: Michelle Miller
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Request.intent has no escape valve

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-56142

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/13/26
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2026-04-13 00:00:00.0 with vote Jose Costa Teixeira/Reinhard Egelkraut: 4-0-0//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//# We will add Other (from data absent reason) to the value set.

	We will add the following guidance into the 'notes' section in a section titled "Choosing an intent code":



"In most cases, a sending system will know the specific intent code to transmit.  Systems SHOULD transmit the most specific code applicable.  I.e. It is better to transmit "filler-order" or "instance-order" than just "order". However, if a system is not sure of which more specific code applies (because their system doesn't differentiate), it is acceptable to transmit a higher-level code.  Consuming systems SHOULD be able to handle both generic and specific codes.

In rare circumstances, a system might have legacy or external data that does not differentiate whether the record represents a plan, proposal, or order.  In this situation, the system SHOULD use an 'intent' of "proposal" as it is the safest and most encompassing concept.  Systems that infer intent in this way should never be used to initiate workflow.

The 'Other' code is reserved for use where none of the existing codes are applicable.  In most cases, this will be when expressing a concept introduced in a future version of FHIR that needs to be conveyed in an older version of FHIR."

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/13/26
Security: Public

Data absent reason doesn't have 'Other'

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/20/26
Security: Public

From FHIR-I discussion 2026-05 WGM, Q2:

Recommend re-opening this issue and redispositioning with the following:

Rationale - The prior solution only helps R6+ and we expect this issue to manifest significantly for R4.  Also, 'Other' codes are contrary to terminology good practice because they are frequently abused.

	In the cross-version IG, we will add a section:



“Cross-version extensions for new mandatory coded elements

Issue: Elements with a required binding and a minOccurs other than zero means that the element MUST be present and MUST have a code from the value set.  Extensions cannot be used to bypass this requirement.  This can create a problem when converting from a version that has additional codes where those codes don’t map to the existing codes.  In this situation there is no conformant mechanism to create the element – or the parent resource or element.

To avoid this problem, this cross-version extension IG defines a new &#91;implicitRule&#93;() with URI xxx that allows for a specific violation of core methodology in this situation.  Specifically:

If an element is of type code with a minimum cardinality other than ‘0’ is being mapped to via a cross-version profile AND the cross-version value set cannot be constructed in a manner that allows mapping of a concept from the other version (i.e. the code is not equivalent to or a specialization of one of the codes in the target version), then the value set SHALL include an additional code of ‘_XV’ from the code system defined in this guide.  For systems declaring the implictRule URI noted above, this SHALL be considered conformant, despite the fact the specified code is not included in the ‘required’-bound value set in the target version.  The use of the ‘_XV’ code SHALL be accompanied by the inclusion of the pertinent cross-version extension that conveys the code from the ‘source’ element FHIR version.

See the &#91;implicitRules&#93;() element for additional guidance around how implicitRules are handled.”

While some systems don’t actually pay attention to implicitRules, they will still likely detect this issue because they’ll encounter a code value they don’t recognize and would this determine the instance to be invalid.  If the consuming system ignores both implicitRules and the mandatory code element, then this change will have no impact.

 

	In the implicitRules element, we will include a comment saying “See additional guidance around the use of implicitRules &#91;here&#93;()” with a link to a new section in the Resources ‘notes’ section.
	Add a new section in Resource ‘notes’ titled “ImplicitRules guidance” with the a ‘dragon warning’ containing following content:



“ImplicitRules can be used to bypass other FHIR conformance rules when needed.  The use of implicitRules in this manner essentially creates an ‘alternate FHIR standard’ that will not interoperate.  This is usually contrary to the purpose of using a data exchange standard in the first place.  This mechanism SHOULD NOT be used when it is technically feasible (though perhaps not cheap/easy) to craft the instance in a conformant manner.  All such uses of this data element SHOULD be vetted with HL7 international to ensure there is no alternative and SHOULD have their implicit rule URL defined and published by HL7 international as demonstration that this vetting has occurred.

	We will add a “Best Practice” warning to Resource.implicitRules that asserts $this.startsWith(‘http://hl7.org/’)

