# FHIR-47357: SubscriptionStatus - heartbeat interval

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: The definition of heartbeat indicates:
If accepted, servers SHOULD send one heartbeat per interval on the accepted subscription.

If an event is also send during the interval -is it still required to send a heartbeat message? If not, the specification should state this.

Is the heartbeat send per interval or within the interval? Is the heartbeat period intended to signal time in which a heartbeat message is to be received? This requires an actual sending speed that is greater than the interval.
If it is just the period, the time between events can vary and the time-out period would be more like 1.5 to 2 times the period. Please clarify this in the specification.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47357
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SubscriptionStatus
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptionstatus.html#heartbeat-notification
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Change the text:
{quote}
If accepted, servers SHOULD send one heartbeat per interval on the accepted subscription.
{quote}

to:
{quote}
If accepted, servers SHOULD send a heartbeat notification any time the channel has been inactive for the specified amount of time. For example, if the heartbeat interval is 60 seconds, the expectation is that there is never a period of 60 seconds that passes without sending at least one notification (either event-notification or heartbeat).  Note that this is a minimum requirement - servers have discretion on how to implement testing: for example by resetting a timer when sending any notification, always sending a heartbeat on a fixed timer, etc.. Clients SHALL be able to handle receiving heartbeat notifications more often than required, and SHOULD account for miniscule differences timing (e.g., clock drift).
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: SubscriptionStatus - heartbeat interval
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47357

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

