# FHIR-54025: rewrite "JWS Signatures" section to focus on FHIR content rather than signature content

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: Switch focus to the FHIR content rather than the signature content.

	To Keep the FHIR Standard as a flexible base standard that avoids potential conflicts with use case specific profiles. Does not introduce the JWS standard requirements like for example "The JWS protected header SHALL contain either a kid or an x5c property"
	re .type: Jades srCms header recommendations includes the http://uri.etsi.org/01903/v1.2.2 codes - they are used in the "srCms" header too ... see https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_ts/119100_119199/11918201/01.01.01_60/ts_11918201v010101p.pdf section 5.2.3 ... and https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_ts/119100_119199/11917201/01.01.01_60/ts_11917201v010101p.pdf Annex B (normative) Commitment types.
	There is no technical reason that I know of to enforce only detached vs "non-detached" (standard JWS). That should be an implementation decision. 



Proposed text ( source at https://github.com/Healthedata1/fhir/blob/master/source/signatures.html)

 
JWS

When the digital signature is a RFC 7515: JSON Web Signature (JWS) signature or a profile built upon it, such as JAdES (JSON Advanced Electronic Signatures), the following guidelines and rules apply:

	Signature.type: This element SHOULD be populated with the codes from Signature Type Codes
	
		The Purpose can be the action being attested to, or the role associated with the signature.
		It SHOULD agree with any "purpose" headers in the JWS signature (for example, the "srCms header defined in the JadES profiles.)
	
	
	Signature.when: This element SHOULD be populated with the signature timestamp.
	
		It SHOULD agree with any timestamp header in the JWS signature (for example, the "iat" or "sigT" headers defined in the JadES profiles.)
	
	
	Signature.who: This element SHOULD be populated with a Reference.reference or Reference.identifier of who signed the content.
	
		It SHOULD match the signer's identity found in the digital certificate. (for example, the Subject Name (SN), or one of the Subject Alternative Names (SAN&gt;) in an X.509 certificate)
	
	
	Signature.onBehalfOf: When applicable, this element SHOULD be populated with a Reference.reference or Reference.identifier of the party represented by the signer.
	Signature.targetFormat: This element SHOULD be populated, and the value SHOULD contain a canonicalization URL from one of those defined above or defined by other specifications.
	Signature.sigFormat: This element SHOULD be populated. with the value "application/jose" for JWS and JWS profiles.
	Signature.data: The base64 encoded JWS.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54025
- **Related Page(s)**: Signatures
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/signatures.html#JWS
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: rewrite "JWS Signatures" section to focus on FHIR content rather than signature content
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54025

## Comments

_No comments in export._
