# FHIR-52918: Group members to allow definitional resources for medication and substance

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: As requested - Bryn will track down current states to ensure this is correct.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/6/25
- **Created**: 9/18/25
- **Description**: Propose to add MedicinalProductDefinition to the resources in Group.member.entity.

re Jira FHIR-48405, as part of the changes to Substance resource to make it purely an instance and not a type, the definitional resource (SubstanceDefiniton) will need adding into Group.member.entity.

The membership also allows Medication (which can be an instance or a type), but currently it is not possible to refer to the definitional version, MedicinalProductDefinition. 

This is needed for example when a testing protocol applies to more than one type of medication. PlanDefinition.subject can be a Group, but the group cannot be a medication type using MedicinalProductDefinition.

This is something that cannot easily be fixed using an extension.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52918
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Group
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/group.html
- **Reporter**: Rik Smithies
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Group members to allow definitional resources for medication and substance
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52918

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 10/6/25
Security: Public

As requested - Bryn will track down current states to ensure this is correct.

### 2. Bryn Rhodes - 10/6/25
Security: Public

Yes, this is somewhat related to this ticket:
https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41951

The updated Group resource does allow non-participant resource types to be group members, so this change is in alignment with that direction.

### 3. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

Movement of the Group Code code system handled by this UTG:
https://jira.hl7.org/browse/UP-740

### 4. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722

