# FHIR-51913: Clarify use of search against Canonical resources

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 8/23/25
- **Description**: Discussion arose out of how search against Task.focus&#91;x&#93; with choice of Reference or canonical works. FHIR-33388 proposes three SearchParameters, all taking Reference parameters:

	focus against the choice element (i.e, against either focusReference }}or {{{}focusCanonical)
	focus-reference against focusReference, and
	focus-canonical against focusCanonical.



In discussion Gino Canessa asserted,
FHIR types of Reference and canonical both map from the search type reference. So the proposed search parameters:

	focus will work against either FHIR type
	focus-reference will only work against Reference
	focus-canonical will only work against canonical



The tricky part of focus is that the input format will have implications for the target type (which should be made apparent to callers). Overall it shouldn't matter, since canonicals will be referenced by url and references are generally not. 
Canonical "urls" are actually allowed to be any urn, and references may or may not be absolute, so absolute url is not a good way to distinguish what to search.

Later he quoted the section on how to interpret a reference parameter:

	&#91;parameter&#93;=&#91;id&#93; the logical &#91;id&#93; of a resource using a local reference (i.e. a relative reference).
	&#91;parameter&#93;=&#91;type&#93;/&#91;id&#93; the logical &#91;id&#93; of a resource of a specified type using a local reference (i.e. a relative reference), for when the reference can point to different types of resources (e.g. Observation.subject).
	&#91;parameter&#93;=&#91;type&#93;/&#91;id&#93;/_history/&#91;version&#93; the logical &#91;id&#93; of a resource of a specified type using a local reference (i.e. a relative reference), for when the reference can point to different types of resources and a specific version is requested. Note that server implementations may return an error when using this syntax if resource versions are not supported. For more information, see References and Versions.
	&#91;parameter&#93;=&#91;url&#93; where the &#91;url&#93; is an absolute URL - a reference to a resource by its absolute location, or by its canonical URL
	&#91;parameter&#93;=&#91;url&#93;|&#91;version&#93; where the search element is a canonical reference, the &#91;url&#93; is an absolute URL, and a specific version or partial version is desired. For more information, see References and Versions.


Again, in this case url and "absolute URL" is also inaccurate, as "canonical URLs" may not be URLs.

In the section on uri parameters,
The search type uri is used with elements of type uri and url. Note that the search type reference is used for the types Reference and canonical, even though they may contain URI values.
This implies (but isn't definitive) that uri should not be used used for canonical.

Finally, the table mapping search types to element types indicates that either uri or Reference search types may be used on a Canonical element, but it isn't clear when either is appropriate.

The distinction between the various search types on the various data types should be clarified.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-51913
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Clarify use of search against Canonical resources

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51913

## Comments

_No comments in export._
