# FHIR-41633: Clarify definition of "element" concept in ExtensionConceptType

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/27/23
- **Description**: extension-context-type value set (http://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-extension-context-type.html) indicates that

element: The context is any element that has an ElementDefinition.id that matches that found in the expression. This includes ElementDefinition Ids that have slicing identifiers. The full path for the element is &#91;url&#93;#&#91;elementid&#93;. If there is no #, the Element id is one defined in the base specification.

This is correct when the expression is ElementDefinition.id. How should I interpret this when the expression is a datatype: such as



  "context" : [{
    "type" : "element",
    "expression" : "string"
  }],



By the above definition, this extension can be used on element whose ElementDefinition.id = string. I can NOT use such extension on an element, such as Device.lotNumber, which is a string because its "ElementDefinition.id" does not match the expression.

I think such definition should be clarified that other than matching ElementDefinition.id, elements also include those having the matched data type or inherited from data type specified in the expression

See zulip discussion https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/extension-context-type.20value.20set
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41633
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: http://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-extension-context-type.html
- **Reporter**: Yunwei Wang
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change from

 

The context is any element that has an ElementDefinition.id that matches that found in the expression. This includes ElementDefinition Ids that have slicing identifiers. The full path for the element is [url]#[elementid]. If there is no #, the Element id is one defined in the base specification.

 

to:

 

The context is any element that has an ElementDefinition.id that matches that found in the expression. This includes ElementDefinition Ids that have slicing identifiers. The full path for the element is [url]#[elementid]. If there is no #, the Element id is one defined in the base specification. When an element has assigned type, the type is also an assigned id for this element. So that the type can also be used here.

 

We will also provide an example somewhere in the spec.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify definition of "element" concept in ExtensionConceptType
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41633

## Comments

_No comments in export._
