# FHIR-54490: Attachment url to relative references should be clarified

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: The actual content of an Attachment can be conveyed directly using the data element or a URL reference can be provided. If both are provided, the reference SHALL point to the same content as found in the data. The reference can never be reused to point to some different data (i.e., the reference is version specific). The URL reference SHALL point to a location that resolves to actual data; some URIs such as cid: meet this requirement. If the URL is a relative reference, it is interpreted in the same way as a resource reference.

	
	
		
	
	



What is the structure of such url? Does it require a protocol or is it just the reference? Is it Patient/dlkdjak or ./Patient/kadsd or http://Patient/akdasjlk?

I assume that it is "Patient/asdashdas" using the FHIR server base-url as starting point but this should be clarified.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54490
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.30.0.3
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/datatypes.html#Attachment
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will add "E.g., 'Patient/123' rather than 'http://someserver.org/Patient/123'.

after "If the URL is a relative reference, it is interpreted in the same way as a resource reference."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Attachment url to relative references should be clarified
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54490

## Comments

_No comments in export._
