# FHIR-50620: Minor Typos in Subscription Resource

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/2/25
- **Description**: Section 2.12.1:

I think there's some ordering that got transposed in this sentence - was it supposed to be:

Once a subscription is created, any triggering state change that meets the filtering criteria specified in the Subscription will cause a notification to be sent using the provided channel. 

 

Original Text:

Once a subscription is created, any triggering state change the specified SubscriptionTopic that meets the filtering criteria will cause a notification to be sent using the provided channel. 

Section 2.12.7.3:

Extra the?

 

Original Text:

For example, the if the notification is for a topic about patient admission, the subscriber may require related Observation resources.

Section 2.12.9.2:

1) `rest-hook` is formatted as plaintext (rather than markdown/rest-hook as code)

2) and and

3) notification Bundle is formatted as code (I believe it's formatted differently elsewhere/as plaintext?)

4) per the format requested

 

Original Text:

To receive notifications via HTTP/S POST, a client requests a subscription with the channel type of `rest-hook` (from the subscription-channel-type Code System) and and an endpoint (Subscription.endpoint) with the desired URL. Note that this URL must be accessible by the hosting server.

To convey an event notification, the server POSTs a notification Bundle to the client's nominated endpoint URL per the format requests in the Subscription:



Section 2.12.9.3:

I think this is referring to Server Websocket Endpoint, rather than client endpoint?

 

Original Text:

12. If the websocket-url is different from the existing connection, the Client establishes a new connection to the Client Endpoint.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-50620
- **Reporter**: Weiyu Zhang
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Minor Typos in Subscription Resource

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50620

## Comments

_No comments in export._
