# FHIR-40645: Define parameters of dateOp

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Gino Canessa will create a proposal and start a discussion on Zulip.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/26/23
- **Created**: 3/20/23
- **Description**: From https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-23937

Initial proposal: 

Currently, the parameters of the "dateOp" target transform functions are undocumented. Proposal to add two parameters:

1. "source" - contains a string which represents a dateTime in some format (e.g. "MM/dd/yyyy H:mm", or "DD.MM.YYYY")

2. "type" - either "time", "dateTime", "date", or "instant"

The dateOp function should attempt to parse the source parameter and convert it into the specified type. If this cast fails, an error is thrown.

 

Need to get agreement on what the parameters should be, then make them official.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40645
- **Related Page(s)**: Mapping Language
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will define separate operations for each target type - i.e. toDate, toTime, toDateTime, etc., each with a single argument conveying the syntax.  Will not add timezone as an argument because it can be injected into the variable on which the operation is being called.  E.g.

foo = "82/11/09 5:15"

foo2 = foo + "-04:00"

foo2.toDateTime('yy/11/09 h:mmZZ') = "1982-11-09T05:15:00:00-04:00"

Have agreed to use the Java syntax for the argument to the above functions, but will prohibit use of those features that don't have an equivalent in .NET.  [~ginocanessa] will come up with the list of what's allowed.

Will define a parallel set of operations called unixToDate, unixToTime, etc. that works on Unix offset-based time representations.  The argument for it will be the timezone in which the conversion should happen.  If someone needs to convert from epochs other than the Unix epoch (1970-01-01T00:00:00), they can add or subtract a constant from the integer value before running the op.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Define parameters of dateOp
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40645

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/26/23
Security: Public

Gino Canessa will create a proposal and start a discussion on Zulip.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Zulip thread is: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Mapping.20strings.20to.20dates .  A lot of discussion, but not much of resolution - I suggest an in-person discussion at the next WGM to nail it down.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Discuss as part of Q6 in Phoenix

### 4. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

