# FHIR-54533: Clarify WADO urls

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I would agree. The URL should be the URL to the content, not some base URL that must be understood as a base URL for a WADO-RS service.  Agree this should be removed.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/13/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: For this reason, medical images can also be represented in a DocumentReference resource, but the DocumentReference.content.attachment.url should provide a reference to a source WADO-RS service for the image.


What does this mean? That in the case of WADO the baseURL is provided? I think the URL should point to location where the content can be retrieved. 

If the intent is to point to the baseUrl, I do not think that is a wise idea. Please clarify.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54533
- **Related Artifact(s)**: DocumentReference
- **Related Section(s)**: 10.2.2
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The DocumentReference.content.attachment.url is anticipated to be fully qualified, i.e. pointing to a specific instance, and not to a base url. The end-user of the url should not need to modify the url to access the intended content.

 

Revised text for the BnR:

For this reason, medical images can also be represented in a {{DocumentReference}} resource, but the {{DocumentReference.content.attachment.url}} {color:#de350b}-should provide a reference to a source WADO-RS service for the image.- should provide a fully qualified reference to the data to be retrieved through a WADO-RS service.{color}
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Clarify WADO urls
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54533

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 5/13/26
Security: Public

I would agree. The URL should be the URL to the content, not some base URL that must be understood as a base URL for a WADO-RS service.  Agree this should be removed.

