# FHIR-54601: Handling of difference in range of FHIR.decimal and System.Decimal

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The 18 digits comes from the minimum decimal representation in XML (https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/#decimal)

The 28,8 in FHIRPath comes from bcd decimal representation ranges common in database management systems, 28 total digits, with 8 digits of scale.

Note that while both the XML and FHIRPath decimal representations characterize the limits as minimums that systems can provide more support for, FHIR explicitly characterizes the 18 digits as a maximum. Agree that the FHIRPath page in FHIR should be clear about what happens when a FHIRPath decimal value exceeds this range, but should it be an error? A warning?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/20/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: There is a large difference in the range of decimal between FHIR (1e18) and FHIRPath (1e28).  Somewhere in the FHIRPath specification there should be a statement about what do with FHIRPath decimals that are outside of the range of FHIR decimals when placing a value into a FHIR resource.
- **Grouping**: [Fit-For-Teleconference]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54601
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html#types
- **Reporter**: Paul Lynch
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Include a new section under the *Using FHIR Types in expressions* heading (and reference from the table like System.Quantity does)

*Using FHIR Decimals*

_The range of decimal values is different between FHIR and FHIRPath._
_The range of values supported by FHIR is 18 digits (which is based on the minimum decimal representation in XML (reference to w3 XML schema), and the range of values supported by FHIRPath is 28 total digits, with 8 digits of scale (based on the binary coded decimal representation ranges common in database management systems)._

_This difference means that in some cases expressions MAY experience overflow situations._
_As documented in the Math section of the FHIRPath specification, if operations cause arithmetic overflow or underflow the result will be empty {}._
_An expression writer can use rounding, truncation or other similar functions to pre-emptively handle these cases if desired._
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Handling of difference in range of FHIR.decimal and System.Decimal
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54601

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 1/20/26
Security: Public

The 18 digits comes from the minimum decimal representation in XML (https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/#decimal)

The 28,8 in FHIRPath comes from bcd decimal representation ranges common in database management systems, 28 total digits, with 8 digits of scale.

Note that while both the XML and FHIRPath decimal representations characterize the limits as minimums that systems can provide more support for, FHIR explicitly characterizes the 18 digits as a maximum. Agree that the FHIRPath page in FHIR should be clear about what happens when a FHIRPath decimal value exceeds this range, but should it be an error? A warning?

### 2. Brian Postlethwaite - 4/1/26
Security: Public

Should that be a "mode" for an engine, we do have documentation in the fhirpath spec that results in overflows returning empty, so that's likely the outcome here.

And I guess we could invoke a warning if that's also supported. (several places have hinted that this could be possible too)

