# FHIR-37753: Add 'Conformance Summary'

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2022-07-11 00:00:00.0 with vote Gino Canessa/Rick Geimer: 16-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//We may wish to modify the tools to expect that all sentences containing conformance verbs appear within a &lt;span/&gt; element with a standard 'conformance' class that we can then highlight the rendering of.

We're not convinced that a summary table of 90+ conformance sentences will be helpful to end readers.  However, it may have value to work groups checking that their set of conformance assertions is consistent and complete.

Will talk about this again once R5 is out the door.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/30/23
- **Created**: 7/7/22
- **Description**: While working through the search page, I realized that conformance language is embedded in text, sometimes long text, that can make it difficult for people that just need to see 'requirements' to find them.

I propose adding a 'Conformance Summary' section to the end of the search page.  It will contain a list of sections and each relevant conformance language sentence.  A mock-up can be found here.

For the mock-up I manually added entries - if this is a desired feature in general, I would recommend adding it to tooling.  Conformance sentences can be wrapped in something like: &lt;span class="fhir-conformance"&gt;&#91;language&#93;&lt;/span&gt;, which could be picked up by tooling during the build process.
- **Grouping**: [FHIR-Tools-Core]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-37753
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add 'Conformance Summary'
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-37753

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2022-07-11 00:00:00.0 with vote Gino Canessa/Rick Geimer: 16-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//We may wish to modify the tools to expect that all sentences containing conformance verbs appear within a &lt;span/&gt; element with a standard 'conformance' class that we can then highlight the rendering of.

We're not convinced that a summary table of 90+ conformance sentences will be helpful to end readers.  However, it may have value to work groups checking that their set of conformance assertions is consistent and complete.

Will talk about this again once R5 is out the door.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 3. Grahame Grieve - 2/28/25
Security: Public

Gino, this is yours once my commits are merged:

 
&lt;span class="fhir-conformance"&gt;Servers SHALL declare
what features of search they require through their &lt;a href="capabilitystatement.html#search-decl"&gt;CapabilityStatement
search declarations&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
and 
&lt;p&gt;&lt;b&gt;Conformance Statement Summary&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
&#91;%conformance-statement-summary%&#93;

### 4. Gino Canessa - 7/8/25
Security: Public

Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442

