# FHIR-46851: _sort for Date is underdefined

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Gino to think about this (e.g. what timezone gets assumed)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/9/24
- **Created**: 8/30/24
- **Description**: The _sort section provides guidance on sorting dates. It states that if the date is not an instance (e.g. Period), the result is server-defined.
What is the expected search behavior in the case the dates are a mix of Instance date, datetime and instant values (e.g. when searching on Observation-date.
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46851
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.2.1.7.1
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/search.html#_sort
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Change the following note:
{quote}When sorting on search parameters of date type, if the source data is not a single instance (e.g. a Period) the sort behavior is server-defined. If more prescribed search behavior is needed, custom search parameters that assert specific behavior can be defined. Note that most reference implementations search by the start of the period.
{quote}
to
{quote}When sorting on search parameters that contain ranges of values (e.g. a date period, range of numeric values, etc.) the sort behavior is server-defined with respect to selecting a value. If more prescribed search behavior is needed, custom search parameters that assert specific behavior can be defined (e.g., a parameter targeting the {{{}Period.end{}}})). While most reference implementations search by the lower bound of the period/range, it is recommended to use the lowest/earliest value an element touches when sorting in ascending order and the highest/latest value an element touches when sorting in descending order.
{quote}
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: _sort for Date is underdefined
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46851

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/9/24
Security: Public

Gino to think about this (e.g. what timezone gets assumed)

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 9/11/24
Security: Public

Gino Canessa, some further thoughts on this topic.

Any date/datetime value is a representation of a period. A value of 2010-08 indicates a period between 2010-08-01T00:00:00 and 2010-08-01-31T23:59:59. A similar approach could also be taken for day, hour, minute and second.

Although the specification indicates an exception for sorting on periods (is server defined), such exception would also apply to sorting DataTime instances where some include seconds and others do not. 

Search is normative so I do not think we should introduce mandatory guidance. We could consider  adding the following algorithm as a suggestion:

	when sorting in ascending order, the start of the period should be used.
	when sorting in descending order, the end.



This will place the instance always as the first entry in its virtual period.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/10/25
Security: Public

Bas will chat with Gino and start a public conversation on Zulip.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Gino Canessa will start the thread

### 5. Gino Canessa - 4/14/25
Security: Public

Started thread: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/FHIR-46851.20.3A.20Sort.20date.20recommendation

