# FHIR-46101: Add guidance about using _include:iterate

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We're theoretically on board with this, but would like to see the specific guidance you'd like to see added.  (Also, if we start documenting performance considerations, that could get big fast...)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/24/24
- **Created**: 6/7/24
- **Description**: Several times this week, people have asked about how to improve performance of 'long' queries.  Each of these have included several _include:iterate directives.

The explanation of what iterate actually does and means to a server should be expanded, along with some notes about the performance impact of queries.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46101
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/search.html
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Change the following text to the section "Including Referenced Resources" from:
{quote}
Details about the iterate modifier can be found in the section [Modifier: iterate]|#modifieriterate].
{quote}

to 
{quote}
Details about the iterate modifier can be found in the section [Modifier: iterate]|#modifieriterate], including potential performance considerations.
{quote}

Add the following text to the modifier: iterate section, in a {{dragon}} warning-style
{quote}
Note that the {{iterate}} modifier causes implementations to perform a sub-query for each {{iterate}} directive for each resource it is based on.

Using {{iterate}} directives can often reduce the _total_ processing time of a set of queries (by reducing the number of round-trips) but can significantly increase the processing time of a single query.

As noted in [Including Referenced Resources|#include], servers have discretion about limiting the depth of recursion, which iterations to support, and how many resources to include. When results are truncated, it is recommended for servers to inform clients via search {{outcome}}.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add guidance about using _include:iterate
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46101

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/24/24
Security: Public

We're theoretically on board with this, but would like to see the specific guidance you'd like to see added.  (Also, if we start documenting performance considerations, that could get big fast...)

