# FHIR-57309: Define a contentReferenceProfile extension

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/17/26
- **Description**: The current specification says, concerning profiles on recursive elements like Questionnaire.item:

&gt; Some backbone elements recurse. e.g., Questionnaire.item. When a profile defines constraints on such elements, the constraints apply to the recursive references to those elements as well. i.e., If Questionnaire.item is constrained to have a type of 'group', that will cause Questionnaire.item.item, Questionnaire.item.item.item, etc. to all have the same constraint.  If there is a need to enforce constraints on a recursive item that apply at some levels but not others (e.g., only the root, or everything except the root), formal constraints using FHIRPath can be used that limit their behavior to only the root or other specific levels of nesting can be used.

But this does not work. See, for instance, the FHIR IPS Composition which doesn't follow this pattern, and shouldn't. Whereas, on the other hand, SDC profiles on Questionnaire do follow these patterns, and should.

The problem, then is to differentiate between the patterns. This task, which is a paired with another task, proposes to change this. We define an extension, and use it. The extension's name is 
contentReferenceProfile. It's basically equivalent to .type.profile, but it applies to contentReference, and says that the element is profiled by a profile found at the nominated element.
 
Notes: * this is not quite equivalent because the profile is applied on the target of the contentReference, not the source of the reference (this is due to the way contentReference works)

	the reference has to be to an element definition in a profile, not to a profile directly
	The reference would usually be to the element's parent to make it straight recursive, but other patterns are possible 
	This task only makes sense if the narrative text is changed per the other task



The extension:

	url is http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/contentReferenceProfile
	name = contentReferenceProfile
	title = ContentReference Profile
	min = 0, max.= *
	definition: a profile on the element identified by the ContentReference that also applies to this element 
	comments: this extension is used to reuse existing constraints. The most common reason is to apply a profile recursively 
	value: this is a uri with the same format as the contentReference itself
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57309
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Define a contentReferenceProfile extension
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57309

## Comments

_No comments in export._
