# FHIR-41457: CapabilityStatements cannot show support for unqualified searches

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Rick Geimer
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Instead of adding a code to the feature value set, we should create an example instance of FeatureDefinition for this use case.
- **Assignee**: Rick Geimer
- **Comments**: 5/13/25
- **Created**: 6/20/23
- **Description**: It is important to understand if a FHIR server supports searching for a resource with no search parameters. This is a common behavior for Patient Access APIs, where servers use the implicit access of the access token in the API call to filter responses (i.e. only the Patient resource for the patient that authorized is returned). Not all servers support this - some require use of a search parameter (see Epic's implementation of Observation as an example).

Today this support cannot be explicitly encoded  into a CapabilityStatement. It can only be brute forced (try unqualified search).

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/CapabilityStatement.20and.20unqualified.20searches
- **Grouping**: [NewCapabilityStatement]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41457
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CapabilityStatement (Conformance)
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/capabilitystatement.html
- **Reporter**: Brendan Keeler
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will not add this to the core CapabilityStatement resource, as we now have a new CapabilityStatement2 implementation guide that takes a terminology-based approach to adding features. 

Will add a code to the feature value set to indicate if a server supports unqualified search (true/false). The code will be "unqualified-search", and the context should be CapabilityStatement.rest and CapabilityStatement.rest.resource. 

Will reassign this ticket to the CapabilityStatement2 IG specification.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: CapabilityStatements cannot show support for unqualified searches
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41457

## Comments

### 1. Rick Geimer - 5/13/25
Security: Public

Instead of adding a code to the feature value set, we should create an example instance of FeatureDefinition for this use case.

