# FHIR-50525: Group definition is ambiguous

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Please update text for a proposed disposition.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/12/25
- **Created**: 4/30/25
- **Description**: The definition of how a Group is acting or acted upon collectively is confusing.  Suggest to re-phrase from:

Represents a defined collection of entities that may be discussed or acted upon collectively but which are not typically expected to act collectively. These collections are also not typically formally or legally recognized.

NOTE: Group may be used to define families or households, which in some circumstances may act collectively or have a degree of legal or formal recognition. This should be considered an exception. When Group is used for types of entities other than Patient or RelatedPerson, the expectation remains that the Group will not act collectively or have formal recognition - use Organization if these behaviors are needed.

For example, it is possible for a 'family' Group to be a performer of an Observation or owner of a Task. However, this is not permitted for a Group made up of Practitioners, PractitionerRoles or Organizations. Organization or CareTeam would need to be used instead. A Group of Practitioners could, however, be a subject of an Observation.

To:

Represents a defined collection of entities that may act or acted upon collectively but are not formally or legally recognized.  Group may be used to define families or households, which in some circumstances may act collectively or have a degree of legal or formal recognition, but not as a formal organization. 

For example, it is possible for a 'family' Group to be a performer of an Observation or a Task. However, it is not permitted for a Group to be made up of Practitioners, PractitionerRoles or Organizations to be a performer of an Observation or Task.  An Organization or CareTeam would need to be used instead to represent a group of practitioners to be a performer. However, a Group of Practitioners could be a subject of an Observation.

Additionally:

Update the Boundaries and Relationships to clarify the difference between Group and Organization/Practitioner/PractitionerRole further.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50525
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Group
- **Reporter**: Hans Buitendijk
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The definition of how a Group is acting or acted upon collectively is confusing.  Suggest to re-phrase *to:*

Represents a defined collection of entities that may be discussed or acted upon collectively but which are not typically expected to act collectively*. These collections are also not typically formally or legally recognized.

*NOTE: Group may be used to define families or households, which in some circumstances may act collectively or have a degree of legal or formal recognition. This should be considered an exception. When Group is used for types of entities other than Patient or RelatedPerson, the expectation remains that the Group will not act collectively or have formal recognition - use Organization if these behaviors are needed.  See more discussion [below]

In the notes section, add
"{*}Groups as Families and Households{*}

As discussed in the introduction, when a Group has a code of 'family' or 'household' it is permitted to take on responsibility - it can be a performer, author, witness, etc.

For example, it is possible for a Group with a code of 'family' to be a performer of an Observation or owner of a Task. However, this is not permitted for a Group made up of Practitioners, PractitionerRoles or Organizations.  Groups with a code other than 'family' or 'household' SHALL NOT be targets of references for elements that take on responsibility, though they might still be targets of other element types (subject, focus, target, etc.)  If a collective that is not a family or household needs to take collective action, use Organization or CareTeam would need to be used instead. A Group of Practitioners could, however, be a subject of an Observation.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Group definition is ambiguous
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50525

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 5/12/25
Security: Public

Please update text for a proposed disposition.

