# FHIR-46350: Bindings for when using Common/Max should be consistent

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive with Modification made 2024-08-05 00:00:00.0 with vote Lloyd McKenzie / Josh Mandel: 10-0-0//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Correction; Version: null)//Given that the additional binding is trial use and not a modifier regarding the existing binding, the guidance should be that a binding with highest bindingStrength is placed in the root of ElementDefinition.binding and additional is used either additional constraints on it (e.g., a preferred or starter set) or additional bindings of the same bindingStrength (e.g., multiple required bindings).

This ensures that any systems that are unaware of or have not implemented support for additional function in the most safe and correct way possible (note that it is still a potential issue if there are multiple required bindings).

Based on that, the tooling should produce an error if an item in additional has a binding stronger than binding.strength.

Additionally, maximum should be removed from the additional-binding-purpose value set, since it would not be possible for that direction to exist.  Add additional documentation describing this requirement, why the maximum additional-binding purpose was removed, and what you should do instead (i.e., use a required binding in the binding element and other values in the additionalBinding).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/25/24
- **Created**: 7/8/24
- **Description**: Request for guidance from FHIR-I (what used to be MnM?) to ensure that bindings are defined consistently when using a common/preferred and a required/maximal set.

For example, when looking at Common Languages, there are two styles of bindings present:

	Resource.language, there is a required binding to All Languages and an additional binding (starter set) for Common Languages.
	When looking at the Translation Extension, there is a preferred binding to Common Languages and an additional binding (max) to All Languages.



There should be one way to describe the combination of required/max + preferred/starter instead of two.  Please decide on the correct style and establish the policy for other WGs so that we have consistent definitions in R6.

Thanks!
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46350
- **Related Page(s)**: (many)
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: 1, We will mark the 'maximum' additional binding use as deprecated, noting that it is equivalent to 'required'.  Will also update the documentation on the terminology page to document the reference to that binding use.

2. We will add a "best practice" warning on ElementDefinition if there is an 'additionalBinding' with a use of 'required' and no 'usage' specified when the overall 'binding' is not required indicating that the 'required' binding should appear as binding, not additional binding.  Text "Required bindings SHOULD appear as the primary binding."

3. Will add a comment in the terminology.html#bindings section that notes that it's possible for there to be multiple required bindings to non-overlapping value sets if the data type is CodeableConcept or CodeableReference.  This would mean that multiple Codings are needed to satisfy the bindings.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Bindings for when using Common/Max should be consistent
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46350

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 9/25/24
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive with Modification made 2024-08-05 00:00:00.0 with vote Lloyd McKenzie / Josh Mandel: 10-0-0//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Correction; Version: null)//Given that the additional binding is trial use and not a modifier regarding the existing binding, the guidance should be that a binding with highest bindingStrength is placed in the root of ElementDefinition.binding and additional is used either additional constraints on it (e.g., a preferred or starter set) or additional bindings of the same bindingStrength (e.g., multiple required bindings).

This ensures that any systems that are unaware of or have not implemented support for additional function in the most safe and correct way possible (note that it is still a potential issue if there are multiple required bindings).

Based on that, the tooling should produce an error if an item in additional has a binding stronger than binding.strength.

Additionally, maximum should be removed from the additional-binding-purpose value set, since it would not be possible for that direction to exist.  Add additional documentation describing this requirement, why the maximum additional-binding purpose was removed, and what you should do instead (i.e., use a required binding in the binding element and other values in the additionalBinding).

### 2. Josh Mandel - 9/25/24
Security: Public

Grahame has introduced several concerns including backwards compatibility

### 3. Josh Mandel - 9/25/24
Security: Public

FHIR-I Q2 at Atlanta WGM: We do not have the vote count to re-open, but I clicked the "Re-open" button anyway – still need to resolve this procedural error on my part.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

Should re-open to change bullet #2 from

"if there is an 'additionalBinding' with a use of 'required'"

to

"if there is an 'additionalBinding' with a use of 'required' and no 'usage' specified"

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive with Modification made 2024-09-25 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/Gino Canessa: 9-0-3//(Impact: Compatible, substantive; Category: Clarification; Version: null)//# We will mark the 'maximum' additional binding use as deprecated, noting that it is equivalent to 'required'.  Will also update the documentation on the terminology page to document the reference to that binding use.

	We will add a "best practice" warning on ElementDefinition if there is an 'additionalBinding' with a use of 'required' when the 'binding' is not required indicating that the 'required' binding should appear as binding, not additional binding.  Text "Required bindings SHOULD appear as the primary binding."
	Will add a comment in the terminology.html#bindings section that notes that it's possible for there to be multiple required bindings to non-overlapping value sets if the data type is CodeableConcept or CodeableReference.  This would mean that multiple Codings are needed to satisfy the bindings.

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Motion to re-open: Corey Spears/Jeff Brown: 26-0-0

