# FHIR-44615: Using cross-version extensions across multiple spec versions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Grahame will use this as a test case in his cross-version work and will come back with a proposed solution.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/2/24
- **Created**: 1/30/24
- **Description**: When using the cross-version extensions, they are rooted in the version of FHIR where the element was (for example) added.  How do we use extensions that were added in different versions of FHIR?

For example:

	The SubscriptionTopic resource was added in FHIR R4B.
	In R4, the representation uses a Basic resource with extensions for the elements.
	The R4 element for SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy is thus "http://hl7.org/fhir/4.3/StructureDefinition/extension-SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy".
	In R5, the element SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy.modifier was split into comparator and modifier elements.  The modifier element has different allowed codes.



I believe the following:

If backporting an R5 SubscriptionTopic to R4B:

	Use the existing R4B::SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy backbone element.
	If the value from either R5::comparator or R5::modifier exists in R4B::modifier, use it.  Otherwise, do not put a value in the optional R4B::modifier element.
	Add R5 cross-version extensions for R5::comparator and R5::modifier elements for any unrepresented values.  If necessary, the extensions would be:
	
		"http://hl7.org/fhir/5.0/StructureDefinition/extension-SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy.comparator"
		"http://hl7.org/fhir/5.0/StructureDefinition/extension-SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy.modifier"
	
	



My question comes when backporting an R5 SubscriptionTopic to R4 - specifically if you need access to any values in R5::comparator or R5::modifier.  Or, more generally, what is the process for using extensions that are rooted in different FHIR versions?  Using some syntactic shortcuts:

	Basic: extension: "http://hl7.org/fhir/4.3/StructureDefinition/extension-SubscriptionTopic"
	
		(4.3 extension nesting) canFilterBy
		
			(4.3 extension nesting) modifier - values from R5 that exist in R4B
		
		
		5.0 extension on 4.3?  extension: "http://hl7.org/fhir/5.0/StructureDefinition/extension-SubscriptionTopic.canFilterBy.modifier"
	
	



Thanks!
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44615
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Using cross-version extensions across multiple spec versions

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44615

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/2/24
Security: Public

Grahame will use this as a test case in his cross-version work and will come back with a proposed solution.

