# FHIR-52817: Defining serialization as base64 is inprecise

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The JWS signatures are created following the referenced specifications and  then subsequently base64 encoded before they get added to the Signature datatype.

 Clarify the following  text to make it clearer
The Signature.data is a base64 encoded JWS-Signature as specified in RFC 7515: JSON Web Signature (JWS)   . In other words, the field contains the JWS signature, which is generated according to the JWS specification and then encoded in base64.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/24/25
- **Created**: 9/9/25
- **Description**: RFC 7515 defines 2 kinds of serialization for JWS Compact serialization and JSON serialization. Both are using based64. Just saying base64 encoded JWS is not enough to specify the one which is used here. Suggest making it clear this is compact serialization (compact serialization according to RFC7515).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52817
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Defining serialization as base64 is inprecise

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52817

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 9/24/25
Security: Public

The JWS signatures are created following the referenced specifications and  then subsequently base64 encoded before they get added to the Signature datatype.

 Clarify the following  text to make it clearer
The Signature.data is a base64 encoded JWS-Signature as specified in RFC 7515: JSON Web Signature (JWS)   . In other words, the field contains the JWS signature, which is generated according to the JWS specification and then encoded in base64.

### 2. EssienGe - 9/24/25
Security: Public

Instead of using "base64  encoding", I would suggest to directly use the term "Compact serialization" in section 7.1 of RFC7515, which is less ambiguous. 

The reason is in RFC7515 there're difference serialization. The method below are both using base64 somehow. If I'm understanding correctly, I think we want to refer to the 1st one here.

The compact serialization.
BASE64URL(UTF8(JWS Protected Header)) || '.' ||
      BASE64URL(JWS Payload) || '.' ||
      BASE64URL(JWS Signature)
The JSON serialization(an example, note the signature below is also in base64)
 {
      "payload":
       "eyJpc3MiOiJqb2UiLA0KICJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODAsDQogImh0dHA6Ly9leGF
        tcGxlLmNvbS9pc19yb290Ijp0cnVlfQ",
      "signatures":[
       {"protected":"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9",
        "header":
         
{"kid":"2010-12-29"}
,
        "signature":
         "cC4hiUPoj9Eetdgtv3hF80EGrhuB__dzERat0XF9g2VtQgr9PJbu3XOiZj5RZ
          mh7AAuHIm4Bh-0Qc_lF5YKt_O8W2Fp5jujGbds9uJdbF9CUAr7t1dnZcAcQjb
          KBYNX4BAynRFdiuB--f_nZLgrnbyTyWzO75vRK5h6xBArLIARNPvkSjtQBMHl
          b1L07Qe7K0GarZRmB_eSN9383LcOLn6_dO--xi12jzDwusC-eOkHWEsqtFZES
          c6BfI7noOPqvhJ1phCnvWh6IeYI2w9QOYEUipUTI8np6LbgGY9Fs98rqVt5AX
          LIhWkWywlVmtVrBp0igcN_IoypGlUPQGe77Rw"},
       {"protected":"eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9",
        "header":
         
{"kid":"e9bc097a-ce51-4036-9562-d2ade882db0d"}
,
        "signature":
         "DtEhU3ljbEg8L38VWAfUAqOyKAM6-Xx-F4GawxaepmXFCgfTjDxw5djxLa8IS
          lSApmWQxfKTUJqPP3-Kg6NU1Q"}]
     }

### 3. Eric Haas - 9/24/25
Security: Public

We do not restricting JWS to only compact serialization.  For example, if you want to use unprotected headers or multiple signatures, it would be JSON serialized according to  IETF RFC 7515 section 3.2. 

Even if it is a JWS compact serialization is it still base64 encoded since the FHIR Signature.data datatype is base64Binary  which means your treat the JWS as just another string. In other words you are base64 encoding base64 encoded strings.

### 4. EssienGe - 9/25/25
Security: Public

Thanks Eric Haas , I'm just aware of this.

Then maybe make more clear in the description to avoid misunderstanding. Previously I thought you just put compact serializations into signature.data directly and calling it based64. That's why we raise this ticket. Your proposal above is much clearer but I would suggest to put in serialization in the wording, and maybe clearly state both are supported. 
The Signature.data is a base64 encoding of a JWS-Signature specified in RFC 7515: JSON Web Signature (JWS)   . In other words, the field contains the JWS signature, which is generated and serialized according to the JWS specification (e.g. compact serialization, json serialization) and then encoded in base64.
 

BTW, If we want to support both compact and json serializations, one next question is do we need an element to distinguish them? Seems the sigformat cannot do that for now. Or do we leave it for verifier to decode and then judge by themselves?

