# FHIR-50626: SubscriptionStatus > QueryStatus Type Should Not Have notificationEvent

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/2/25
- **Description**: The list of notification types + required elements for them has notificationEvent as an option for the query-status SubscriptionStatus - should that be removed?

 
2.13.8.4 Query Status 

Clients can ask a server at any time for the current status of a Subscription, for example via the $status operation.

Since the $status operation is part of the FHIR REST API, the guidance below assumes that a user has been authenticated and is allowed access to all relevant resources.



Element
Optionality
Notes


SubscriptionStatus.status
Required
Current status of the relevant subscription (e.g., active).


SubscriptionStatus.type
Required
SHALL be query-status


SubscriptionStatus.eventsSinceSubscriptionStart
Special
Required for subscriptions with best-effort delivery, optional for subscriptions with guaranteed delivery. See Event Numbering for details.
Note: this value SHALL NOT be incremented by sending a query-status notification.


SubscriptionStatus.notificationEvent
Special
A query-status notification MAY contain recent notifications.


SubscriptionStatus.topic
Recommended
See Content and PHI, but note that guidance will vary since there is an active user session.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-50626
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SubscriptionStatus
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.13.8.4
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptionstatus.html
- **Reporter**: Weiyu Zhang
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: SubscriptionStatus > QueryStatus Type Should Not Have notificationEvent
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50626

## Comments

_No comments in export._
