# FHIR-42980: Remove TODO from FML spec

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Also, the dateOp transform needs documenting.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/19/23
- **Created**: 10/20/23
- **Description**: The page has three TODOs. The to-be-done content should be done.

Please provide content or remove the TODOs.
- **Grouping**: [MappingLanguage]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42980
- **Related Page(s)**: Mapping Language
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/mapping-language.html
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add documentation in place of the first two "todo" marks (see comments).

Will remove the section with the third remaining todo.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Remove TODO from FML spec
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42980

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 10/19/23
Security: Public

Also, the dateOp transform needs documenting.

### 2. Corey Spears - 4/15/24
Security: Public

Also, need to resolve the question mark for cast



cast
source, type?

### 3. Corey Spears - 4/15/24
Security: Public

Grahame Grieve , Can you please review and add clarification for the TODOs and other items identified in these comments?

### 4. Gino Canessa - 1/12/26
Security: Public

First todo:

list_modes: control how elements that repeat are managed when the transform rule is evaluated. Values can be 'first', 'share', 'last' and 'single'. TODO: What do these do?

Documentation should be added.

Second:

TODO: explain how optional parameters work with transforms (append only?), document list mode

Documentation should be added.

Third:

7.4.0.12 Mapping Support API 
todo

This section should be removed to be placed into an Incubator project.

### 5. Elliot Silver - 1/28/26
Security: Public

Will the resolution address the comments from Corey Spears and myself (dateOp)?

### 6. Corey Spears - 1/29/26
Security: Public

We reviewed this in the linked FHIR-I meeting and determined that some content on one of these items was needed before we could address the issue fully. It may have been the 3rd item, which has been slated to be removed. If that is the case, that particular concern was addressed. 

There is the matter of the question marks that we need to address, which is not technically part of this ticket. We may need another ticket to make sure we address it (if one does not already exist).

 

Elliot Silver , I don't know what happened to the dateOp transform. I found several tickets about this issue:

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-20844?jql=project%20%3D%20FHIR%20AND%20description%20~%20dateOp%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC

 

But the transform seemed to have been removed at some point. I have yet to find documentation about it's removal.

