# FHIR-54078: Type Factory functionality not ready for normative and should be moved to incubator

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/13/26
- **Description**: The type factory is not ready for normative, please move to an incubator IG.
(was draft maturity=0 in R5 and has very limitted implementation experience)

The following is a summary of my feedback on the existing state of the content, but will add additional detail after the ballot if this content is to remain in the normative content.

Many of the functions duplicate the functionality approved for the base fhirpath specification (FHIR-33044) which uses the normative definition from CQL.
The text of the functionality is available in this CI build:
_https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/FHIRPath/branches/BP-FHIR-44774/index.html#instance-selector_


(FML also has a similar capability)

Other general notes:

	Include some guidance in the header for this section to indicate what contexts these functions would be used in - such as converting data during SDC pre-population or extraction, ...?
	Remove the generic %factory.primitive and %factory.create - now directly covered by the new fhirpath functionality
(as noted in the intro to the section - which can now be removed)
	Missing summary list of functions (as is in other factories: %terminology and %server)
	inconsistent examples formatting compared to all other functions in fhirpath
	additional examples that would be more typical examples of usage, none of the examples make sense to me as valid uses anywhere I'd expect to find a fhirpath expression - ususally they refer to data from an input resource - which is the reason why these expressions don't show how bad they are to do anything significant.
	the functions are not "fluent" in style as most (almost all) fhirpath functions are. The %factory prefix is not required.
	%factory.Extension example invalid - wrong case for function name in example
	
inconsistent usage/definition style with fluent usage, %terminologies and %server
	%factory.{primitive} formatting weird and not explained (outside the example). Should this work for all primitive types? What about base64Binary?
	
		Documentation formatting for `%factory.{primitive}` uses curly braces which could be confused with the empty collection syntax `{}` - if keeping it
    - Suggest using guillemets in documentation only: `%factory.«primitive»(value, extensions) : «primitive»` to avoid confusion with `{}` empty collection syntax
    - The guillemets are only for documentation - actual usage would be: `%factory.code('final')` or `%factory.string('test')`
	
	
	The two different statements about parameter optionality are confusing:
    - First says "For the specific type constructors, all the parameters are optional"
    - Then says "For the general type constructors, all the parameters are mandatory"
    - This needs clearer separation and explanation
    - Just be explicit in all functions what parameters are required, and which are mandatory using the standard [] formatting.
      Include a note at the top that indicates that if wanting to provide a parameter that is after optional parameters,
      the emtpy {} collection syntax can be used as an empty placeholder. But don't require the optional parameters following to be present.



The factory functions should just be regular functions, the %factory.xxx format is not required. Suggest these simple functions instead:

	create(type: identifier): Any create any object type
(suggest remove - use new fhirpath syntax)
	create(type: identifier, &#91;value: \{primitive | string}&#93;): Any create any object type, if the type is a primitive, the value for that FHIR primitive type (if a string, will parse to the type, but can be any fhirpath primitive value too, that won't need parsing) - overload of the above - or just the normal definition
(suggest remove - use new fhirpath syntax)
	createCoding(sys, code, display, version)
	createCodableConcept(coding, text) Can embed createCoding() for the coding parameter
	createIdentifier(system, value, &#91;use&#93;, &#91;type&#93;)
	createContactPoint(system, value, &#91;use&#93;)
	createQuantity(system, code, value, unit)
	createHumanName(...) do we really need this one? the generic one I think would be clearer usage, too many parameters
	createAddress(...) do we really need this one? the generic one I think would be clearer usage, too many parameters
	withExtension(url, value) fluent form to return the a copy of the input object with the provided extension details added to it
	withProperty(idenfier, value) fluent form to return a copy of the input ojbect with the provided property added to it (though need to work out what to do with collections, is this adding a new value, or replacing it?)
Another possible representation for supporting codings could be like these: (though I'd make them fluent rather than with an argument)
	toCoding(codedString string): FHIR.Coding that takes a coding string with | for version delimiting, and convert it to a Coding FHIR type. (Thanks John Grimes)



        - pipe seperated as per https://pathling.csiro.au/docs/fhirpath#coding
        - how is this done in VCL? * convertsToCoding(codedString): System.Boolean to compliment the toCoding above
- **Grouping**: [Incubator]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54078
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.9.3 Type Factory
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Type Factory functionality not ready for normative and should be moved to incubator

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54078

## Comments

_No comments in export._
