# FHIR-41727: Performance of txt-2 invariant

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 8/10/23
- **Description**: Invariant `txt-1` calls the FhirPath function `htmlChecks()` to do a full xsd validation validation of the narrative, this is on most systems a quite expensive operation, but necessary to validate what `txt-1` is supposed to do.

 

`txt-2` however, is about having at least some non-whitespace content in the narrative. Unfortunately, this invariant is also enforced by just running `htmlChecks()` again, meaning that a validator operationally will run the expensive xsd check twice. I am not even sure an empty document is considered invalid.

Is there no more efficient way to formulate this invariant?  like `trim().length() &gt; 0`?

Or maybe this is just a copy &amp; paste mistake
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41727
- **Related Page(s)**: Narrative
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/narrative.profile.xml.html
- **Reporter**: Ewout Kramer
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: This is a normative pair of constraints but their actual checks are identical. Remove txt-2, and update the human description for txt-1 to include a requirement for the presence of non-whitespace characters.

---

Note from discussion: txt-1 still doesn't require full XSD validation. The java validator has an example of a much narrower check function that satisfies the rules.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Performance of txt-2 invariant
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41727

## Comments

_No comments in export._
