# FHIR-42722: TestScript assert.requirement definition needs reference Requirements.statement.key

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Richard to propose specific language.
- **Assignee**: Richard Ettema
- **Comments**: 4/1/24
- **Created**: 9/10/23
- **Description**: The TestScript assert.requirement.link&#91;x&#93; definition needs to clarify that the requirement.linkUri should reference the more granular “Requirements.statement.key” in the format of (&#91;url#&#93;key).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42722
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestScript
- **Related Section(s)**: https://hl7.org/fhir/testscript-definitions.html#TestScript.setup.action.assert.requirement.link_x_
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/testscript.html
- **Reporter**: Richard Ettema
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: TestScript assert.requirement definition needs reference Requirements.statement.key

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42722

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/1/24
Security: Public

Richard to propose specific language.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/1/24
Security: Public

Also need a discussion on Zulip about how '#' can be used with canonicals.  References section suggests it's only used for contained resources.  (Also 'id' and 'key' are different things.)

### 3. Richard Ettema - 4/1/24
Security: Public

The current TestScript.test.assert.requirement structure is:

+ assert
|+ requirement
 |+ link[x]
  |- linkUri        uri
  |- linkCanonical  Canonical(Requirements)

where the linkUri is expected to contain the Requirements canonical url followed by the Requirements.statement.key value in the format "url#key". The linkCanonical would only provide a reference to the entire Requirements instance.

Based on the FHIR specification's restriction on the use of the "url#id" format to contained resources, I would instead propose that the TestScript.test.assert.requirement structure be re-defined as follows:

+ assert
|+ requirement
 |- requirements        Canonical(Requirements)
 |- key                 id

where, the assert.requirement.requirements contains the canonical url to the linked Requirements instance and, the assert.requirement.key is the corresponding Requirements.statement.key value from the linked Requirements instance.

This eliminates the incorrect usage of the "url#id" format.

### 4. Richard Ettema - 4/1/24
Security: Public

Minor updates to the proposal:

+ assert
|+ requirement           0..*  BackboneElement
 |- requirements         0..1  Canonical(Requirements)
 |- key                  0..1  id

An invariant would be needed to require the key when the requirements value is populated, or both the requirements and key elements could have their cardinalities set to "1..1".

### 5. Richard Ettema - 4/2/24
Security: Public

I generated a local FHIR spec build with the proposed updates. Here's a screen shot:

### 6. Richard Ettema - 4/17/24
Security: Public

PR with TestScript updates - https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3071

