# FHIR-47292: SubscriptionStatus - add status operation section

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Resolution looks good - but it does not address the question on whether the links are versioned or not. I think there is an argument that they should be versioned as they point to a resource at certain point in time.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/30/24
- **Created**: 9/10/24
- **Description**: SubscriptionStatus lists requirements related to focus and additional resources (event-notification).

Do these requirements apply to the resources returned by the status operation Subscription-operation-status - FHIR v6.0.0-ballot1? I assume they do.

If so we should mention they refer to the resource in the repo. Is it recommended that these references are versioned?
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47292
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: SubscriptionStatus - add status operation section

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47292

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 10/30/24
Security: Public

Resolution looks good - but it does not address the question on whether the links are versioned or not. I think there is an argument that they should be versioned as they point to a resource at certain point in time.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 3. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

