# FHIR-48347: "directive" definition in RequestIntent code system is not appropriate for advance directives

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Hans Buitendijk
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: During the SEP-2024 WGM OO reviewed this Jira and supports the removal of "legally binding" as this varies based on context.  If the patient is the author in particular, the request is not legally binding until other documentation and/or clinician order has been created to fulfill the request.  If FHIR-I determines that the change is too substantive, which based on actual usage we do not foresee, a clear alternative value must be made available.  Another alternative would be to create a two level definition where the first level is general and the child level reflects a legally binding directive.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/27/24
- **Created**: 9/21/24
- **Description**: The RequestIntent code system code description for directive should change

	From: "The request represents a legally binding instruction authored by a Patient or RelatedPerson."




	To: "The request represents an instruction authored by a Patient or RelatedPerson."



Rationale: The legality of a patient-authored directive may differ from state to state or among countries. Not all directives may be legally binding. The usefulness of this term is limited by including this aspect of the definition.
- **Grouping**: [To_be_applied]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48347
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Request Pattern
- **Reporter**: May Terry
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: "directive" definition in RequestIntent code system is not appropriate for advance directives
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48347

## Comments

### 1. Hans Buitendijk - 9/27/24
Security: Public

During the SEP-2024 WGM OO reviewed this Jira and supports the removal of "legally binding" as this varies based on context.  If the patient is the author in particular, the request is not legally binding until other documentation and/or clinician order has been created to fulfill the request.  If FHIR-I determines that the change is too substantive, which based on actual usage we do not foresee, a clear alternative value must be made available.  Another alternative would be to create a two level definition where the first level is general and the child level reflects a legally binding directive.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

Initially raised against https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-pacio-adi/branches/master/StructureDefinition-ADI-PMOServiceRequest.html

Moving to core spec, as that's where the codes are defined

