# FHIR-49851: Group resource needs more work on scope

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 2/21/25
- **Description**: FHIR-47603 seeks to clarify representing families as groups. The proposed addition to the introduction is insufficient.

1/

The entry for Group in the Boundaries and Relationships section needs to mention families.

I suggest after 

"This resource will commonly be used for public health (e.g. describing an at-risk population), clinical trials (e.g. defining a test subject pool) and similar purposes."

add

"It may be used to define families or households, which in some circumstances may act collectively or have a degree of legal or formal recognition."

2/

The Boundaries and Relationships section needs to mention Organization. The wording must be coordinated with the wording in the Boundaries and Relationships section of the Organization resource.

3/

The Use Cases section needs to describe the constraints on family groups, e.g. group.type must be RelatedPerson.

4/

In Group.type clarify the guidance its values for when Group.member.reference is a patient or group. The current text has not been updated to reflect the new kinds of group member.

5/

Many resources that now permit Group so as to include families, need to constrain the types of group to being family groups. Often there is only a comment.

Examples include CareTeam.participant.member which has the text "Using Group is only allowed when the group represents a family or a household and should not represent groups of Practitioners."

This text 1/ looks normative, but is in a comment 2/includes both "only allowed" and "should not". I think it is intended to be normative. Better text is "Using Group is only allowed when the group represents a family or a household and must not represent groups of Practitioners."

Consider adding an invariant like

Groups other than relatedpersons are not permitted. Invariant on CareTeam.participant

Error member.resolve().ofType(Group).where(type!='relatedperson').empty()
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49851
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Group
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/group.html
- **Reporter**: Richard Townley-O'Neill
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Group resource needs more work on scope

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49851

## Comments

_No comments in export._
