# FHIR-45138: ImplementationGuide.global.profile should be 1..*

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Rick Geimer Please start a Zulip discussion on this.  I think the intention was to set a minimum of "All patients are US Core patients", rather than to have a list of options.
- **Assignee**: Grahame Grieve
- **Comments**: 4/29/24
- **Created**: 3/29/24
- **Description**: Limiting ImplementationGuide.global.profile to 1..1 is not sufficient. Previously there was a single US Core Condition profile, but in the latest version (6.1.0 as of this ticket) that single profile was split into two profiles. How do we assert that all Condition resources in an IG must conform to either the US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile or the US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile? 

Recommend changing the cardinality to 1..*
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45138
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ImplementationGuide
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/implementationguide.html
- **Reporter**: Rick Geimer
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: ImplementationGuide.global is already 0..* with 1..1 type and 1..1 profile. 

We will add a rule that say that multiple ImplementationGuide.global of the same type means one of any of the same type applies. 

We will update all of the element descriptions under ImplementationGuide.global to be consistent with this clarification.

We will also add an example using multiple globals.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: ImplementationGuide.global.profile should be 1..*
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45138

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/29/24
Security: Public

Rick Geimer Please start a Zulip discussion on this.  I think the intention was to set a minimum of "All patients are US Core patients", rather than to have a list of options.

### 2. Rick Geimer - 4/29/24
Security: Public

Zulip discussion: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Changing.20ImplementationGuide.2Eglobal.2Eprofile.20to.201.2E.2E*

