# FHIR-46207: TestPlan.testCase.testRun.script.source[x] should be markdown

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We're not thinking that markdown is appropriate here.  We think that given that this is supposed to be computable content and that we don't necessarily want the 1 million character limit to apply, should use Attachment.  If you want a pretty-print version of the content, could have a markdown extension for that.  Alternatively, we could have the publisher auto-pretty-print certain languages (like we do for XML/JSON).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/24/24
- **Created**: 6/22/24
- **Description**: Testplan is intended to contain scripts such as gherkin features. It should be displayed in the original format and for this, it should be markdown, not string .
See example of the content here: 
https://worldhealthorganization.github.io/smart-ips-pilgrimage/branches/testcases/test-cases.html#record-consent.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46207
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestPlan
- **Reporter**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add Attachment as an option
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: TestPlan.testCase.testRun.script.source[x] should be markdown
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46207

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/24/24
Security: Public

We're not thinking that markdown is appropriate here.  We think that given that this is supposed to be computable content and that we don't necessarily want the 1 million character limit to apply, should use Attachment.  If you want a pretty-print version of the content, could have a markdown extension for that.  Alternatively, we could have the publisher auto-pretty-print certain languages (like we do for XML/JSON).

### 2. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 1/6/25
Security: Public

Agree with Attachment. Will follow up on improving authoring and rendering - https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/231245-testing/topic/TestPlan.20narratives.20not.20rendering.20markdown

### 3. Richard Ettema - 2/26/25
Security: Public

PR https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3322

