# FHIR-56020: Remove some Additional Binding values

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 3/5/26
- **Description**: Some of the additional binding codes make fundamentally incorrect assumptions about FHIR's role in clinical data lifecycle:

	current
	current-extensible
	best-practice
	ui



 

current / current-extensible

The distinction implied by current and current-extensible seems to assume a clear separation between “legacy data” and “new records.” In practice, there often is no distinction between the two.  For example:

	An EHR may query an immunization registry and receive historical data that is ten years old. Although this information is newly incorporated into the EHR, it is legacy data in terms of when it was captured.
	Data captured "today" in an ancillary system (e.g., labs) may not be loaded into an EHR (or whatever the system is that produces the FHIR resources) until hours, days or weeks later. In that scenario, data that was “new” at the time of capture is effectively treated as legacy data by the receiving system (e.g. the EHR).
	Health systems are constantly buying clinics and doing data conversions to load data from newly purchased clinics into their central EHR.  These acquisitions and conversions are an ongoing and perpetual source of new "legacy data".
	Similarly, transitions of care over national networks is constantly shipping patient history to new organizations.  Most of that data is "legacy" for the sender, but "new" for the receiver.  If the receiver is producing the FHIR resources from the clinical data, but the sender is the one doing the data capture, it likely is inappropriate for the receiver to change the terminology that was specified when the data was captured.



 

 ** ui

The ui binding raises a similar fundamental concern to "current". Data exchange standards have no impact on user interfaces, since the conversion of captured clinical data to FHIR resources (or X12, HL7v2, C-CDA, NCPDP formats) happens {}after*{*} (sometimes, long after) data capture is complete.

 

The concept of a data exchange standard imposing UI requirements doesn’t work for several reasons:

	 Data capture happens long before that data is converted into FHIR resources (or NCPDP, or HL7v2, or C-CDA, or X12).  Data has already been captured by the time FHIR (or any data exchange standard) is even considered.  Even for totally new data, if it is captured today, but nobody queries for it via FHIR until tomorrow, then capture could be complete a full day before a FHIR resource even exists.  And for some data, a FHIR resource may never exist.
	If you pretend that somehow data capture UIs did care about FHIR specs, then if multiple standards (or multiple FHIR IGs) were to impose differing UI expectations, a conformant system could theoretically be required to prompt users for every UI-bound value set. This would place a significant and unrealistic burden on clinical workflows and would not be acceptable to most UI designers or providers.
	In practice, UI developers are typically unaware of—and unconcerned with—FHIR specifications. As a result, any UI-related requirements defined in FHIR are likely to be ignored (again, like pushing on a rope).
	FHIR resources are typically created from pre-existing clinical data rather than direct user interaction. That source data may originate from HL7 v2, C-CDA, X12, NCPDP, barcode scanning, or other mechanisms. The assumption that FHIR resources are primarily produced via user interfaces does not reflect most (any?) real-world implementations.



 ** 

best-practice

For best-practice, it is not clear what it means to encourage an "instance" to do something.  It would be helpful to clarify whether the intent is to guide:

	Software systems that produce FHIR resources from raw clinical data.
	End users who document raw clinical data that (may) eventually be serialized into FHIR resources.
	Clinical or technical administrators who map local data to standard terminologies, where that mapping is used in the process of producing FHIR resources from raw clinical data.



 

Practically, it seems likely that the "best practice" guideline are most appropriately consumed by #3.  Those users don't really interact with FHIR specs, so including terminology best practices in FHIR specs isn't likely to have much effect.  It would be like pushing on a rope.

In Summary:

FHIR specifications do not control how or when data is originally collected.  Clinical data can be collected in many ways, and the FHIR resource that represent that clinical data may not be produced for days, months or even years after capture.    FHIR conformance is only evaluated when a FHIR resource exists, and if that resource doesn't exist when data is captured, then it is nonsense to try to use FHIR to impose capture requirements on clinical data. 

 ** 

Recommendation:

Any codes that relate to data capture should be removed from this value set.  I believe that list includes:

	current
	current-extensible
	best-practice
	ui
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-56020
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/codesystem-additional-binding-purpose.html
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Remove some Additional Binding values

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-56020

## Comments

_No comments in export._
