# FHIR-51604: Role of CompartmentDefinition instances in core is unclear

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/31/25
- **Description**: The core spec includes CompartmentDefinition instances for each of the HL7-defined compartments, but it isn't clear whether these instances are pure examples or whether they're definitional in some way. If the instances aren't definitional it isn't clear where we define the contents of a compartment.
compartment definitions can only be defined by HL7 International
If the included instances are examples, what does this statement mean? Is the "definition  by HL7" simply the required http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/compartment-type valueset?
The full definitions of these compartments are published as CompartmentDefinition resources. Servers typically do not support the full definition of a compartment, and are not required to. Systems may publish CompartmentDefinition resources so that other systems may make use of compartments properly.
By this, implementations may support a subset of the example instances, and include a subset of the resources for any compartments they do support. (And the subset of resources supported in a compartment doesn't need to be all of the resources an implementation generally supports.) But can you support additional resources than are in our instances. If we fail to add new resource Foo to the Patient compartment, can a compliant implementation include that resource in their Patient compartment?

From the resource structure, it appears a resource can be included in a compartment without specifying a search param (0..* cardinality). Is that intended to mean that the resource is included but the basis of the inclusion is not disclosed?

The spec mentions using chained search to include resources. Presumably, a large number of additional resources would make sense in a compartment if one were to use chaining. There is no direct inclusion of Organization or Location in the Patient compartment, however they are referenced from many of the resources that Patient references; is it reasonable for an implementation to add them to the Patient compartment?

Within the core spec definitional instances of many resource types show up from the Artifacts or Terminology menus. If these instances are truly definitional, they should be added appropriately.

Clarify the role of the CompartmentDefinition instances and allowed/expected deviations from those instances.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51604
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Role of CompartmentDefinition instances in core is unclear

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51604

## Comments

_No comments in export._
