# FHIR-53810: FHIR R6 should address the referred signature comments

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Tickets not addressed in R6.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/5/26
- **Created**: 1/5/26
- **Description**: Ticket
Title
Resolution in Jira
Updated?
Remark


FHIR-52810
Signature on Bundle should not use id




Agree to change to cater for the document id to change. Rather than use a magic fragment id, we will use pointer based fragments, since they are unambiguous, and will say to use the fragment identifier '#/'. Update the page rules and worked examples accordingly
 |N|No updates in the ballot version, id still used.|



FHIR-52811
The use of # in Provenance in Bundles is unclear
N.A. still unresolved.
N
6.1.2.2.9 says " if the Provenance does not have a target of `Bundle/&#91;id&#93;` it does not represent an embedded signature", so it seems to mean that you need to have 2 targets - one to bundle/id and the other to # - if you want to sign both bundle and the provenance.


FHIR-52812
Do we need additional canonical rules for singing the whole bundle
N.A. still unresolved.
N
No changes. This is actually relevant to FHIR-52811, so depend on the disposal of that one we may see if it is still needed.


FHIR-52813
Countersigning not completely clear
The Provenance resource SHALL have a Provenance.signature element that contains the signature of the Bundle, with all entries that contain embedded signing provenance resources removed (that is, all entries that have a resource which is a Provenance, where the Provenance.target elements include a reference to `#/`. Note that counter-signing signatures will include additional targets, but one of the targets is always `#/')
N
The bullet reference in the ticket is exactly the same as the ballot version. And no '#/' seen.


FHIR-52814
Update canonical rules for documents
N.A. still unresolved.
N
No changes seen, maybe they want to cover this in 6.1.2.2.9, however it suggested to be referenced here also to avoid confusion. (and 6.1.2.2.9 is not clear for now.)


FHIR-52815
Change meta behavior for Signatures.
N.A. still unresolved.
N
No changes seen, still remove the whole meta for #static in 6.1.2.2.4


FHIR-52816
The term Electronic Signature is confusing
N.A. still unresolved.
N
No changes on term seen


FHIR-52817
Defining serialization as base64 is inprecise
N.A. still unresolved.
N
According to the discussion with Eric Haas on Jira, it seems I'm misunderstanding at the beginning, they do want to 1st have the signature generated as some JWT format, e.g. , BASE64URL(UTF8(JWS Protected Header)) &#124;&#124; '.' &#124;&#124;BASE64URL(JWS Payload) &#124;&#124; '.' &#124;&#124;BASE64URL(JWS Signature). and then base64 encode it again. However the it may worth some more explanation here or people will misunderstand like I have. And not sure how to distinguish the different JWT serialization format.


FHIR-52818
Recommend JAdES-B-T for non-repudiation
 
The Signature MAY conform to JAdES-B-T or any other profiling of JOSE-Signature. If more than integrity is required, the JAdES specification provides a set of profiles, and implementers should consider the rules found in those profiles carefully.  For long term signatures, implementers  SHOULD conform to JAdES-B-LTA.
N
No updates seen.


FHIR-52819
recommending XAdES-T for non-repudiation
The Signature MAY conform to XAdES-B-T or any other profiling of XMLDigSig. If more than integrity is required, the XAdES specification provides a set of profiles, and implementers should consider the rules found in those profiles carefully.  For long term signatures, implementers  SHOULD conform to XAdES-B-LTA.
N
No updates seen.


FHIR-52820
add additional example of JAdES-B-T. And if JAdES-B-LT
 
N.A. still unresolved.
N
No changes though this should be a minor one.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53810
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-52810: Signature on Bundle should not use id, FHIR-52811: The use of # in Provenance in Bundles is unclear, FHIR-52812: Do we need additional canonical rules for singing the whole bundle, FHIR-52813: Countersigning not completely clear, FHIR-52814: Update canonical rules for documents, FHIR-52815: Change meta behavior for Signatures., FHIR-52816: The term Electronic Signature is confusing, FHIR-52817: Defining serialization as base64 is inprecise, FHIR-52818: Recommend JAdES-B-T for non-repudiation , FHIR-52819: recommending XAdES-T for non-repudiation, FHIR-52820:  add additional example of JAdES-B-T. And if JAdES-B-LT
- **Related Page(s)**: Signatures
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: FHIR R6 should address the referred signature comments
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53810

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 1/5/26
Security: Public

Tickets not addressed in R6.

