# FHIR-54516: lastUpdated to log last modification time

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Khalid Shahin
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bas van den Heuvel 
This belongs to FHIR-I.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/19/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: The document has several dates in it:

	The document date (mandatory) found in Bundle.timestamp. It identifies when the document bundle was assembled from the underlying resources
	The Composition date (mandatory) found in Composition.date. It is when the author wrote the document logically
	The Attestation dates (optional). These are found in Composition.attester.time and is when the document was witnessed by the attesters. This would usually be at the same time as the composition date or afterwards
	The Composition last modified time (optional). This is found in Composition.meta.lastUpdated for the composition and is the last date of change of the composition. This must be &gt;= the composition date




lastUpdated is typically linked to the underlying server. It could be set when the resource is uploaded when the e.g. the logical id changes (unpacking a bundle). As such it has a different lifecycle than the Composition resource and these should bot be mixed. Please remove this restriction.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54516
- **Related Page(s)**: Documents
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.4.1
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: lastUpdated to log last modification time

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54516

## Comments

### 1. Khalid Shahin - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Bas van den Heuvel 
This belongs to FHIR-I.

### 2. John D'Amore - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Discussed at 19 May 2026 WGM SDWG Q4

