# FHIR-44499: Support non-FHIR operations

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The binding is extensible for exactly this reason - to allow custom OperationDefinitions and potentially non-FHIR interactions as well.  However, there isn't much guidance in TestScript in how OperationDefinition urls should be represented in Coding.  Will reach out to the community and ask.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/11/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Consider if this should be CodeableConcept. What is the type for non-FHIR operations? E.g., how would I encode the user "authorizes" an activity?

Existing Wording:
type 0..1 Coding

(Comment 32 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44499
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ExampleScenario
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related Section(s)**: 12.34.7
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We cannot see a benefit to changing from {{Coding}} to {{CodeableConept}} in expressivity.  Most of the elements that would be described should already be present as sibling elements to the {{type}} (if there are any that are not, please file a ticket).

Propose adding guidance describing the process for representing non-FHIR calls when people want to use a coded value to represent it.  However, the {{type}} is optional so if there is no benefit to a coding, it should be omitted.  E.g., set the {{method}} and related properties.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Support non-FHIR operations
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44499

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/11/24
Security: Public

The binding is extensible for exactly this reason - to allow custom OperationDefinitions and potentially non-FHIR interactions as well.  However, there isn't much guidance in TestScript in how OperationDefinition urls should be represented in Coding.  Will reach out to the community and ask.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/11/24
Security: Public

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Referencing.20operations.2C.20messages.2C.20etc.2E.20as.20'Coding'

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Git master 64f4db6650

