# FHIR-53979: Capture Level of Adoption per Resource

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussed on 2026.01.26 WGM Q2:

General consensus feels that there is value in making current profiling information available (e.g., what is at https://packages2.fhir.org/xig ).

People would like information about production implementations, but it would need to be self-reported.

Concerns about budgeting, location, etc.

Note that the contents would not be appropriate to include in the specification, so the key decision would just be about adding a link and where.

General concerns about getting accurate data and how to surface usefully (e.g., what kind of grid?)

Note that profiling != production use, though both have good signals.

Benefits would be discoverability and credibility about resource usage.

Needs further discussion.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/26/26
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: With the publication of R6, my understanding is that we are declaring all resources in the spec to have a maturity level of “normative,” while explicitly stating that this implies nothing about the level of adoption of any given resource. I understand and agree with the rationale for this approach.

My concern is that, in so doing, we lose an important signal: a way to understand how broadly a given resource has been adopted.

I propose that we define a mechanism to track adoption on a per-resource basis. This could include (but need not be limited to) which companies or organizations have implemented the resource and the countries in which it is in use.

Because the R6 spec itself will be frozen, this tracking would necessarily live outside the spec. However, I believe it is important that each resource link to this information directly, both to make it easy for potential implementers to find and to reinforce that this is an official companion to the specification.

I have concrete ideas for how such an adoption-tracking mechanism could work, but I do not want to dilute this comment by going into design details here. At a high level, Chris Schaut is exploring whether HL7 staff would be interested in developing something along these lines. If not, I believe we could make a workable solution using templated Confluence pages, and I am willing to help with that effort.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53979
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/resource.html
- **Reporter**: Michael Donnelly
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Capture Level of Adoption per Resource
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53979

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 1/26/26
Security: Public

Discussed on 2026.01.26 WGM Q2:

General consensus feels that there is value in making current profiling information available (e.g., what is at https://packages2.fhir.org/xig ).

People would like information about production implementations, but it would need to be self-reported.

Concerns about budgeting, location, etc.

Note that the contents would not be appropriate to include in the specification, so the key decision would just be about adding a link and where.

General concerns about getting accurate data and how to surface usefully (e.g., what kind of grid?)

Note that profiling != production use, though both have good signals.

Benefits would be discoverability and credibility about resource usage.

Needs further discussion.

