# FHIR-22847: Resource metadata item "source" incorrectly associated with Provenance.entity.what[x]

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Motion Kathleen Connor/Peter van Liesdonk: 5-0-0 &#8211; Security Workgroup meeting 7/16/2019

         The text descriing source shoud be referencing Provenance.agent, not Provenance.entity, as the definition of source is indicating where the data came from in terms of the agent that provided the data, not where the data was derived as in the data object from which this data is derived. Given the rest of the description of source, the proper Provenance equivilant is Provenance.agent.,
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/16/19
- **Created**: 7/15/19
- **Description**: *Usage of Metadata Item *source (0..1) uri is incorrectly said to correspond to Provenance.entity.what[x].

         "A uri that identifies the source system of the resource. This provides a minimal amount of Provenance information that can be used to track or differentiate the source of information in the resource. The source may identify another FHIR server, document, message, database, etc. In the provenance resource, this corresponds to Provenance.entity.what[x]."

         Provenance.entity.what&#91;x&#93; is defined as "Identity of the Entity used. May be a logical or physical uri and maybe absolute or relative." http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/provenance-definitions.html#Provenance.entity.what_x         

         It should be said to correspond to Provenance.entity.agent, which is defined as "The entity is attributed to an agent to express the agent's responsibility for that entity, possibly along with other agents. This description can be understood as shorthand for saying that the agent was responsible for the activity which generated the entity." http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/provenance-definitions.html#Provenance.entity.agent         

         Please correct.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-22847
- **Reporter**: Kathleen Connor
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Resource metadata item "source" incorrectly associated with Provenance.entity.what[x]

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-22847

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 7/16/19
Security: Public

Motion Kathleen Connor/Peter van Liesdonk: 5-0-0 &#8211; Security Workgroup meeting 7/16/2019

         The text descriing source shoud be referencing Provenance.agent, not Provenance.entity, as the definition of source is indicating where the data came from in terms of the agent that provided the data, not where the data was derived as in the data object from which this data is derived. Given the rest of the description of source, the proper Provenance equivilant is Provenance.agent.,

