# FHIR-50010: Simplify RelatedArtifact data type and improve guidance on its usage

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/12/25
- **Created**: 3/14/25
- **Description**: The RelatedArtifact data type should be simplified and guidance around its usage should be provided to ensure that elements using the data type do not allow for inappropriate or redundant relationships to be defined.

This tracker is the result of discussions with multiple groups that make use of this data type as prompted by this tracker: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40920

A detailed discussion and proposal is provided in this Google doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/189YlLu3T_cmeeNtaDBb8R5LWNJgrwbeQvQL-n_bD6NE/edit?tab=t.0
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50010
- **Related Artifact(s)**: MetadataResource
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes

Metadata Types
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/metadatatypes.html#RelatedArtifact
- **Reporter**: Bryn Rhodes
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Make the following changes to the RelatedArtifact DataType:

1. Remove the classifier element
2. Remove the publicationDate element
3. Remove the publicationStatus element
4. Remove the display element

5. Deprecate the citation, document, resource, and resourceReference elements.
5a. Add a new artifact[x] (choice type) 0..1 with allowed types of markdown, Attachment, canonical(Any), and reference(Any).  Ensure each of the types includes documentation and examples of appropriate use.
5b. Add an invariant to ensure artifactMarkdown is only allowed when the type is citation (citation.exists() implies type = 'citation')


6. Reduce the set of allowed types (https://build.fhir.org/valueset-related-artifact-type.html) to documentation, justification, citation, predecessor, successor, derived-from, depends-on, composed-of, part-of
7. Add documentation indicating that if the type is 'citation', only artifactMarkdown or artifactCanonical(Citation) are allowed.
7.a Add an invariant to ensure if the type is 'citation', only artifactMarkdown and artifactCanonical are allowed.

8. Add an invariant to ensure documentation makes use of document: (type = documentation implies artifact.ofType(Attachment).exists())
9. Add an invariant to ensure that when the type is 'justification', only artifactAttachement and artifactReference are allowed. (type = 'justification' implies (artifact.ofType(Attachement).exists() or (artifact.ofType(Reference).exists()))

10. Add the following guidance as a design note to the RelatedArtifact type:
{quote}
For resources that make use of RelatedArtifact, the relevant work group SHALL decide which relationships and target types are 'core' for the resource, which would historically have been handled as extensions, and which are not relevant at all. They SHALL define invariants that prohibit the use of relationships and/or target types for their resource that are never relevant or are redundant with other core elements or long-used extensions.  (And if there is overlap with extensions that are not long-used, will ensure that the context for those extensions excludes the resource.)  They will also add documentation to the element referencing RelatedArtifact calling out those relationship types that are considered 'core'.

Work groups considering the adoption of the RelatedArtifact data type, may only do so after evaluating what proportion of the incorporated elements are core for their resource and determining that the majority of the relationship types meet those criteria. They would still need to impose invariants around nonsensical or redundant relationship types and targets and provide documentation about which types were considered core.  The note will also indicate that addition of new relationship types requires agreement that those relationships are 'core' to the majority of resources using the RelatedArtifactType and approval of the FHIR Infrastructure work group (from a methodology perspective)
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Simplify RelatedArtifact data type and improve guidance on its usage
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50010

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 10/12/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3722

