# FHIR-51717: Clarify rules for profiling of Parameters

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Profiling Parameters is no different than anything else.  There are no special rules and shouldn't be a need to clarify.

Per standard profiling rules:

	It's fine to constrain allowed types
	If you have slices, whether you're allowed to add slices or not depends on whether the slicing is open or closed
	Ditto
	It's possible to constrain types to need to follow a specific profile (or one of a set of profiles).  If profiles were already listed, you can tighten, but not loosen.



Is there anything that makes you think Parameters is a special case Gino Canessa ?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/8/25
- **Created**: 8/11/25
- **Description**: When discussing profiling on the Parameters resource, there was some confusion about what kinds of things can be added by derivative profiles.

E.g., assume a base profile has only: 

	Parameters.parameter&#91;name&#93; = 'myParam', with value types: string, uri, url
	Parameters.parameter&#91;name&#93; = 'complex', with parts named 'a' and 'b'
	Parameters.parameter&#91;name&#93; = 'content', expecting a resource



Is it valid to:

	Restrict parameter:myParam.value to string only
	Add a new part to Parameters.parameter&#91;name&#93; = 'complex' - e.g., part 'c'
	Add a new parameter to Parameters.parameter - e.g., parameter&#91;name&#93; = 'extended'
	Restrict Parameters.parameter:content.resource to a specific profile



Anything else?

Request is to clarify in the specification and add examples showing what is valid.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51717
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Parameters
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/profiling.html
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Clarify rules for profiling of Parameters

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51717

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/8/25
Security: Public

Profiling Parameters is no different than anything else.  There are no special rules and shouldn't be a need to clarify.

Per standard profiling rules:

	It's fine to constrain allowed types
	If you have slices, whether you're allowed to add slices or not depends on whether the slicing is open or closed
	Ditto
	It's possible to constrain types to need to follow a specific profile (or one of a set of profiles).  If profiles were already listed, you can tighten, but not loosen.



Is there anything that makes you think Parameters is a special case Gino Canessa ?

