# FHIR-43312: Add `offer` as new `intent` for ServiceRequest

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Should "intent" be a specialization of "proposal"?

OO is open to adding a new value for intent, but would like FHIR-I to review the entire associated workflow (asking for bids, receiving responses, awarding bids, etc.)
- **Assignee**: John D.L. Nolen
- **Comments**: 12/11/23
- **Created**: 11/30/23
- **Description**: In order to better coordinate the requesting and fulfilment, it would help to have an offer intent on a ServiceRequest whereby a prospective filler could propose fulfilment based on a ServiceRequest by creating a new ServiceRequest as an offer of service.  This could support an offer to fulfil based on access to a request token (either accessed via a paper request or digitally) or could be used to offer service against a ServiceRequest where multiple potential filler could specify constraints on their service provision, e.g. location, time, cost.
- **Grouping**: [PendingQA]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43312
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ServiceRequest
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/valueset-request-intent.html
- **Reporter**: Andy Bond
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will: 
 # Add in a level 2 code under proposal called "solicit-offer" to capture an "ask"-ServiceRequest
 # Add in a level 2 code under proposal called "offer-response" to capture a response to an "ask" for a ServiceRequest
 # We will add in the following to the notes section of ServiceRequest: "To capture the workflow around the solicitation of potential ServiceRequests based on time, price, etc, use the level 2 code "solicit-offer" on the "ask" ServiceRequest. For the ServiceRequest response to an "ask" ServiceRequest, use the level 2 code "offer-response" along with a basedOn reference to the "ask" ServiceRequest.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add `offer` as new `intent` for ServiceRequest
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43312

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 12/11/23
Security: Public

Should "intent" be a specialization of "proposal"?

OO is open to adding a new value for intent, but would like FHIR-I to review the entire associated workflow (asking for bids, receiving responses, awarding bids, etc.)

### 2. David Barwin - 9/8/25
Security: Public

John D.L. Nolen This was voted on but not applied before being transitioned to FHIR-I WG. Given this ticket is pretty stale at this point does it require a vote to re-open and discuss?

### 3. John D.L. Nolen - 9/19/25
Security: Public

applied to the build 954ae5d

