# FHIR-7707: 2015May core #998 - How are agent and activity linked?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/10/15
- **Description**: Existing Wording: Provenance.entity - Definition: An entity used in this activity. &#91;0..1&#93;

         Provenance.agent - Definition: An agent takes a role in an activity such that the agent can be assigned some degree of responsibility for the activity taking place. An agent can be a person, an organization, software, or other entities that may be ascribed responsibility. &#91;0..*&#93;

         Comment:

         When there is more than one entity and more than one agent, then how does one know which entity was used by which agent  in the activity from which the target Resource resulted?  Perhaps the Provenance Resource developers thought that this was addressed by the Provenance.entity.agent element, but that element is about the entity used in the unnamed activity that resulted in the Provenance Resource's target resource.  



         Relationship among the Provenance Resource as an Activity with agents and the relationship between agents and entities used in the activity that resulted in the target Resource need to be clarified.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-7707
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Provenance
- **Related Section(s)**: 6.5.7 Resource Prove
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/2015May/provenance-definitions.html#Provenance.target
- **Reporter**: Ioana Singureanu
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: 2015May core #998 - How are agent and activity linked?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-7707

## Comments

_No comments in export._
