# FHIR-41220: Operations page has link to "simple parameters" but no definition.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Please provide feedback (or update) the proposed resolution.  Thanks!
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/9/24
- **Created**: 5/7/23
- **Description**: Section 3.3.0.6.1 Operation Request, the following sentence is present:

If an operation has exactly one input parameter whose type is a FHIR Resource and all other parameters a client intends to submit are simple parameters, then the client MAY invoke the operation via POST with the input resource as the request body and additional parameters as query parameters.

Note that "simple parameters" is a link, implying that by following that link you would find out what simple parameters are. However, the link just circles back to the execution section. There are no other occurrences of "simple parameters" in that section, or anywhere on the operations page for that matter. Suggest either defining simple parameters somewhere and linking to that definition or removing the link entirely.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41220
- **Related Artifact(s)**: OperationDefinition
- **Related Page(s)**: operations
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.3.0.6.1 Operation Request
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/operations.html#request
- **Reporter**: Rick Geimer
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Operations page has link to "simple parameters" but no definition.

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41220

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 12/9/24
Security: Public

Please provide feedback (or update) the proposed resolution.  Thanks!

