# FHIR-40757: Using R5 extensions in R4 that make required fields obsolete.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/R5.20field.20extensions.20that.20make.20mandatory.20fields.20obsolete
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/17/23
- **Created**: 4/3/23
- **Description**: We are working with SampledData want to use the extension mechanism from R5 to be able to use the SampledData.offsets field in R4 deployments.

The R4 specification indicates that the period field is required. Is there a way to signal that this field should be ignored in light of the offsets extension? If not, should we add that?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40757
- **Related Page(s)**: Extensibility
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.7.0.7
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: In a situation like this, a system could use data-absent-reason to indicate that the SampledData.period element is "not-applicable" and satisfy the mandatory in that way.  (Note that many R4 systems will likely choke on this, but it *is* technically a legal thing to do.)

In the section "Managing Change during the development process" in versions.html, we will add:

"One type of breaking change that can happen between versions is that elements that were previously mandatory might be removed or made optional.  When converting data from future releases of FHIR, no data will be available for these elements.  The '1' minimum cardinality can be satisfied by sending a [data-absent-reason] extension with a value of "not-applicable".  Systems SHOULD always check not only for an element but a value for the element when writing their logic."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Using R5 extensions in R4 that make required fields obsolete.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40757

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 4/17/23
Security: Public

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/R5.20field.20extensions.20that.20make.20mandatory.20fields.20obsolete

