# FHIR-19684: GraphDefinition example for Patient/$everything

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We will wait for Grahame to return before committing to the first piece, because he'll probably end up doing it.  But agree this would be nice to have as an example.  As for the second, we're not convinced that clients would actually do anything useful with a computable definition of the contents of a $everything operation.  Systems could certainly come up with an operation that would return such a GraphDefinition and trial it at connectathon, but we don't have any interest from anyone at this point in doing so.
- **Assignee**: Rick Geimer
- **Comments**: 7/1/19
- **Created**: 11/21/18
- **Description**: It would be nice to have one or more examples of GraphDefinitions corresponding to expected results from the Patient/$everything operation. It would be even nicer if somewhere a server could return an explanation in the form of a GraphDefinition which explains how this operation is implemented on that server.
- **Grouping**: [GraphDefinition]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-19684
- **Related Artifact(s)**: GraphDefinition
- **Reporter**: Patrik Sundberg
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: GraphDefinition example for Patient/$everything
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-19684

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/1/19
Security: Public

We will wait for Grahame to return before committing to the first piece, because he'll probably end up doing it.  But agree this would be nice to have as an example.  As for the second, we're not convinced that clients would actually do anything useful with a computable definition of the contents of a $everything operation.  Systems could certainly come up with an operation that would return such a GraphDefinition and trial it at connectathon, but we don't have any interest from anyone at this point in doing so.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/23/22
Security: Public

Rick will do this once Lloyd fleshes out (and applies) FHIR-25474

