# FHIR-48863: Do we need a Group container?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 11/18/24
- **Description**: In FHIR-47496 (and others) we introduced a household as the center around which the data is centered. A Family is represented as a Group. This works very much in the same way as we gather information Patients.

For Patients these are contained in a Patient compartment which gives meaning and scope to resources such as RelatedPerson.

There is no such concept for families. We should discuss and decide whether we need to introduce a Group/family compartment that then could be used to scope operations and restrict access.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48863
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Group
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/compartmentdefinition.html
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will define a compartment for Group and will add Group and all resources that have a subject that is allowed to be Group.  It will NOT include the members of the group or resources that has group members as subjects.

We will also move the bullet saying "Although compartment definitions can be a useful foundation for access control, they may not be sufficient for this purpose. Resources outside the compartment might still be appropriate to be made available or subject to compartment restrictions even though they are not formally part of the compartment (see below about access rules)." and make it a sub-bullet of "Provide a definitional basis for applying access control to resources quickly"
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Do we need a Group container?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48863

## Comments

_No comments in export._
