# FHIR-50260: clarify SampledData limits

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John D.L. Nolen
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Erik Moll Please provide an example using scaled values.
- **Assignee**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Comments**: 4/15/25
- **Created**: 4/15/25
- **Description**: It is unclear whether SampledData.lowerLimit and SampledData.upperLimit are to be interpreted as scaled values or as original non-scaled values. The text needs to clarify this.
The assumption I and others made is that these values are not scaled and that the interval &#91;lowerLimit..upperLimit&#93; represents all possible measured values for a sample.

Proposed text:

The lowerLimit, when present, represents the lowest possible measured value and is not scaled. Similarly the upperLimit, when present, represents the highest possible measured value and is not scaled. The range &#91;lowerLimit..upperLimit&#93; can be used  by visualisation tools for scaling when representing sampledData graphically.

 

And although submitted on FHIR R4, this is still applicable in R6 as well.

 

And on a side note: the use of dimensions in R4..R6 is rather limited. All dimensions will have the same unit, origin, scale factor and limits. Ideally these are defined per dimension.
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50260
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.24.0.11
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/datatypes.html#SampledData
- **Reporter**: Erik Moll
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add a comment to both the lowerLimit and upperLimit to say "These values are scaled in the same manner as the data values.  I.e. to find the true limit, multiply this value by the factor and add the origin."

We're choosing to go with this interpretation because the one example we have in the spec that has limits (in Observation) uses this approach.

 

We will also add the following to the description of the data type:

"If there is a need to capture dimensions that differ in scale, origin, limits, etc. this is typically done by having multiple SampledData instances - one in each Observation.component where the components represent different dimensional subsets."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: clarify SampledData limits
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50260

## Comments

### 1. John D.L. Nolen - 4/15/25
Security: Public

Erik Moll Please provide an example using scaled values.

### 2. John D.L. Nolen - 4/15/25
Security: Public

Moving this to FHIR-I due to ownership of SampledData datatype.

### 3. Erik Moll - 4/16/25
Security: Public

I attached a (handcrafted) example of a scaled ECG waveform with lower/upperLimit from the original range - rtsa-example-2.json.

