# FHIR-50952: The FMM extension contexts should be Element not Resource

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The maturity process is managed by the FMG.

Conceptually FHIR-I agrees that this makes sense; however, there are a few issues:

	Right now, we haven't evaluated the maturity criteria for how well they make sense for individual data elements.  We've only done that for resources.  Could we also have FMM levels for codes within a code system?  Or parameters within an operation?  This could go all over the place in many conformance resources.
	We have a hard enough time getting work groups to track and maintain the information needed to vouch for maturity of resources, let alone the other conformance resources.  Do we really think we have the capacity to try to manage maturity declarations down to the individual element level?  Because if we do it some places, we need to do it everywhere.  (The failure to differentiate maturity would become interpreted to mean 'all elements are at this level' as opposed to what it means now, which is that 'the resource/profile/whatever overall is at this level, but not necessarily all components are.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/2/25
- **Created**: 5/21/25
- **Description**: The definition of the FMM extension says that it's only allowed on DomainResource, but it should be allowed in lots of other places, so it should be changed to Element
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50952
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureDefinition FMM Level
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Add to the extension ( [https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-structuredefinition-fmm.html] ):
 * Link to the [FHIR Maturity Model Confluence Page|https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIR/pages/35718679/FHIR+Maturity+Model]

Ask FMG to the [FHIR Maturity Model Confluence Page|https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIR/pages/35718679/FHIR+Maturity+Model]:
 * A note about use of FMM level on Elements with a brief description
 * Note that element FMM levels _cannot_ exceed the FMM of the resource they are defined in
 * An example of why an element FMM level is appropriate (e.g., FMM 0 label on a Trial-Use element in a more mature resource) and a description of intent (i.e., to show that something is _less mature_ than the containing definition).
 * A note about that the use of FMM level in other contexts (such as on a {{code}} in a {{{}CodeSystem{}}}) is currently undefined.


Note that per https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40463 , the text on the FHIR Versions page regarding maturity will be updated based on the contents of the Confluence page in preparation for publication.  When doing the next update, the following text:
{quote}
The table above represents a frozen snapshot of the maturity levels maintained by the FHIR Management Group on the FHIR Confluence page icon. Further information and discussion about these levels can be found there.
{quote}

should be moved to the top of that section (above the actual contents) so that readers can be directed to the current content first.  If there is an appropriate style to apply (e.g., reader-note?), this paragraph should be styled as such.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: The FMM extension contexts should be Element not Resource
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50952

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/2/25
Security: Public

The maturity process is managed by the FMG.

Conceptually FHIR-I agrees that this makes sense; however, there are a few issues:

	Right now, we haven't evaluated the maturity criteria for how well they make sense for individual data elements.  We've only done that for resources.  Could we also have FMM levels for codes within a code system?  Or parameters within an operation?  This could go all over the place in many conformance resources.
	We have a hard enough time getting work groups to track and maintain the information needed to vouch for maturity of resources, let alone the other conformance resources.  Do we really think we have the capacity to try to manage maturity declarations down to the individual element level?  Because if we do it some places, we need to do it everywhere.  (The failure to differentiate maturity would become interpreted to mean 'all elements are at this level' as opposed to what it means now, which is that 'the resource/profile/whatever overall is at this level, but not necessarily all components are.

