# FHIR-37998: Resource-validate operation is poorly defined

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Carmela A. Couderc
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reviewed on the 2023-10-17 TI tracker call. This is not specific to a TI owned resource.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/17/23
- **Created**: 8/26/22
- **Description**: $validate can be invoked at either the type level or the instance level, but the documentation doesn't clearly define the parameters with respect to that optionality.

 

In one particular case, it seems to conflict with itself. The 'resource' Documentation states that this parameter:
Must be present unless the mode is "delete"
 

However, the mode parameter is bound to https://build.fhir.org/valueset-resource-validation-mode.html and that defines the code "profile" as follows:
The server checks an existing resource (must be nominated by id, not provided as a parameter) as valid against the nominated profile.
 

It wouldn't make any sense to require the 'resource' parameter if we're checking an existing resource ("nominated by id, not provided as a parameter).

 

Personally I think its useful to ask the server if the resource with a given id is valid against a particular profile, so my proposal would be the following:

	If mode=profile then the profile parameter becomes required and the resource parameter becomes prohibited.



 

If we agree to that, then the http://hl7.org/fhir/resource-validation-mode can stay as-is and we just need to update the parameter definition for resource to say:



Must be present when the mode is "create" or "update". Must not be present when the mode is "delete" or "profile".





 

I think I understand the reasoning for requiring "resource" to validate whether a 'create' or 'update' would be valid on the server.

But what should be the behavior when a resource is invoked at the instance level (&#91;base&#93;/&#91;resourceType&#93;/&#91;id&#93;/$validate) when mode is not populated?

The definition says:

	&#91;mode not provided&#93;: The server checks the content of the resource against any schema, constraint rules, and other general terminology rules



But its not clear to me if "the content of the resource" there is something passed via the resource parameter or the current resource that lives at &#91;base&#93;/&#91;resourceType&#93;/&#91;id&#93; ...personally I'd prefer it to be the latter.  If a client wants to validate a resource "in general" by passing it, they can and should do that at the resource level (and not the instance level).

Finally, what is the expected behavior when $validate is invoked at the instance level with mode=create?  Should the server return an OperationOutcome.issue if there already exists an instance with this id?

 

{{}}

Personally, I think it would be more clear to split the operation into two:  one for the type-level interaction and one for the instance-level interaction.

For the following reasons:

	at the type level, the resource parameter is required (cardinality 1..1)
	at the type level, there's no need for 'mode' because there is only 2 valid options:  either no mode (i.e. general validation) or mode=create
	at the instance level, the resource parameter is required when mode=create or mode=update and otherwise prohibited
	at the instance level, declare that no mode means that the existing resource on the server will be validated
	given the above, then there is no need for mode=profile at all...this becomes the default behavior of the operation when you pass a profile parameter
	at the instance level, omit 'create' from the bound valueset (because 'create' is defined at the resource type level, not the instance level)



At the very least we should fix the conflicting definitions.
- **Grouping**: [R6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-37998
- **Related Page(s)**: Terminologies - Valuesets

Validation
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/operation-resource-validate.html
- **Reporter**: Lee Surprenant
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Resource-validate operation is poorly defined
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-37998

## Comments

### 1. Carmela A. Couderc - 7/17/23
Security: Public

Reviewed on the 2023-10-17 TI tracker call. This is not specific to a TI owned resource.

