# FHIR-48547: FHIR Packages should have a sensible size limit

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Ward Weistra
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Related Zulip discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Simplifier.20does.20not.20have.20us.2Ecore.237.2E0.2E0.20package/near/475588511
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/8/24
- **Created**: 10/8/24
- **Description**: Currently no package size limit has been defined in https://hl7.org/fhir/packages.html.

This has lead to the VSAC package being published with the entirety of VSAC, which contains 15.000 ValueSets and CodeSets, while its current dependents use only about 300 of them in total. For VSAC it has now been agreed that this situation should be phased out as soon as possible.

Large packages (and in general large complete package scopes; a package with all its dependencies) slow down the entire FHIR ecosystem without a benefit. For example, any tool that needs to load the package and its dependencies (think editing tools like Forge/Sushi/Firely Terminal, any FHIR servers or even a mobile app) will at least need to download all dependency files and index them at least at start-up, potentially also expand/snapshot them or check whether this is necessary.

We should strive to keep packages targeted and split in logical ways to keep unnecessary files in scope to a minimum.

On top of that we should define a maximum package size. Any value chosen will of course be arbitrary, but should reflect the current sensible size of a set of text files.

Our current infrastructure had set the limit to 25Mb, but this is already exceptionally large for any reasonable FHIR package.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48547
- **Related Page(s)**: Packages
- **Reporter**: Ward Weistra
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Size limits are problematic because not all authors can easily control what they must release.  Different implementations will have (possibly significant) differences in what they can handle.  And the limitations could be different based on number of artifacts, size of artifacts, and overall size.  These limitations are also likely to change over time.  Therefore, rather than specifying a particular cap, we'll just warn authors of the consequences of containing too much stuff and highlight that tools can limit how much content they'll handle.

Will add a section to the Packages page called "Package composition" that says:

In theory, packages can contain an unlimited number of artifacts with unlimited size.  However, in practice, real-world tools will struggle or even fail if packages are too large.  Authors should consider this when deciding how they package.  Ways to help manage this issue include:
 * packaging 'extra' collateral such as testing support and examples in separate packages from the definitional content
 * Ensuring package artifacts are expressed in their 'minimal' form whenever possible (e.g. not including expansions of value sets)
 * When it's possible to control size (e.g. examples), try to keep sizes smaller.  For example, if there's a need to have an example of a video, make sure it's low resolution and short.
 * Consider publishing content in subsets if the overall number of files would be significant.  (This will also often speed the publication process.)

In the ImplementationGuide resource, will include a hyperlink to the above section saying: "Choices around the types and volume of resources included in a single implementation guide can impact the size of the packages resulting from the publication of the implementation guide.  When deciding on how to organize content and making decisions about what content to include, please consider the package guidance provided [here]."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: FHIR Packages should have a sensible size limit
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48547

## Comments

### 1. Ward Weistra - 10/8/24
Security: Public

Related Zulip discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Simplifier.20does.20not.20have.20us.2Ecore.237.2E0.2E0.20package/near/475588511

### 2. Ward Weistra - 4/16/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3459

