# FHIR-45047: Definition and short of Meta.lastUpdated do not align

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Triggered this discussion. The discussion on 45012 and the related zulip thread may have impact on the resolution to this ticket.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/25/24
- **Created**: 3/25/24
- **Description**: (raised during FHIR-i call on Monday 25-03-2024)

The definition and short of Meta.lastUpdated are not aligned and the definition refers to something that does not exists.

The term version should likely be replaced with Meta.versionId.

The "e.g." in the definition might need to replaced with "i.e.".
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45047
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/resource-definitions.html#Meta.lastUpdated
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Change The comments of {{Meta.lastUpdated}} from :
----
This element is generally omitted in instances submitted in a PUT or POST. Instead, it is populated in the response instance and when retrieving information using a GET. The server / resource manager sets this value; what a client provides is irrelevant. This is equivalent to the HTTP Last-Modified and SHOULD have the same value on a read interaction.

There may be situations where the returned data elements might change without any change to the lastUpdated element. For example, if a server returns a code and its corresponding display by using a foreign-key reference to the code system, updates to the code system that affect the display name might not be reflected in the lastUpdated value of the resource holding the code. It is also possible that an underlying record might be updated in a way that isn't actually surfaced in the FHIR resource (e.g. changing non-exposed metadata) that would cause lastUpdated to change even when there is no apparent change in the data.
----
To:
----
----
This element is generally omitted in instances submitted in a PUT or POST. Instead, it might be populated by the server when data is received or assigned when crafting the instance when constructing a response. The server / resource manager sets this value; what a client provides can be irrelevant. This is equivalent to the HTTP Last-Modified and SHOULD have the same value on a read interaction.

Note that there are scenarios where changes in a resource do not trigger a change in the `lastUpdated` value and there are scenarios where changes in `lastUpdated` are made even though there are no visible changes in the resource. Unless specified otherwise, this element MAY be out of sync with changes in either direction. For example:
 * If a system uses mapping tables to generate resources (e.g., a facade server), updates to those tables might not be reflected in `lastUpdated` but do result in a difference of retrieved resource content.
 * If a system generates resources from internal data (e.g., a facade server), the system's internal `lastUpdated` value might be changed due to changes that are not visible on FHIR resources (e.g., extended data has been changed).
 * If a system updates an element that a particular client does not have access to (e.g., prevented by privacy rules), the `lastUpdated` value might be changed even though there are no visible changes in resource content.

Note to server implementers: updating `lastUpdated` too frequently is generally preferred over missing updates. It is better for client to retrieve records too frequently rather than missing updates.
----
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Definition and short of Meta.lastUpdated do not align
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45047

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 3/25/24
Security: Public

Triggered this discussion. The discussion on 45012 and the related zulip thread may have impact on the resolution to this ticket.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 4/8/24
Security: Public

Please write up a proposal for updated short/definition/comments based on:
Zulip Implementer Thread and Zulip Argonaut Thread.

Please post for review prior to call for voting - tag Bas, Grahame, and Lloyd.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 9/17/25
Security: Public

Providing proposed resolution...

### 4. Elliot Silver - 9/18/25
Security: Public

&gt; Instead, it might be populated by the server when data is received or assigned when crafting the instance when constructing a response. 

This looks like two half sentences left over from editing. Please fix while applying.

