# FHIR-51439: Clarify removal of mappings in profiles

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/4/25
- **Description**: Section 5.1.0.8 states:
The following table indicates which types of changes are allowed for which elements:



Element
Revise?
Add?
Remove?


mapping
Yes
Yes
Yes




Section 5.1.0.9 states:
Note that structure definitions cannot 'remove' mappings and constraints that are defined in the base structure, but for purposes of clarity, they can refrain from repeating them.
These two section appear to contradict, at least on the surface. The "yes" under "remove" in the table should probably be changed to a "no". (Filling out "no" in the blanks elsewhere in the table would be helpful too.) Or at least change it to a "yes*" with an explanation of how the two statements aren't contradictory.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51439
- **Related Page(s)**: Profiling
- **Related Section(s)**: 5.1.0.8, 5.1.0.9
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: 1. We will update the 5.1.0.8 table to reflect that the following *can* be removed:

 * Element ID: {{[ElementDefinition.requirements|http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/elementdefinition.html#ElementDefinition]}}
 * Element ID: {{[ElementDefinition.label|http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/elementdefinition.html#ElementDefinition]}}
 * Element ID: {{[ElementDefinition.code|http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/elementdefinition.html#ElementDefinition]}}

{{We will remove code.coding from the table}}

{{2. After the table will add a sentence that says "To remove any of the listed properties, repeat the property in the differential with identical values and use the [ElementDefinition-suppress](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-elementdefinition-suppress.html) extension}}

{{3. We will change "Note that structure definitions cannot 'remove' mappings and constraints that are defined in the base structure, but for purposes of clarity, they can refrain from repeating them."}}

{{to "Note that structure definitions cannot 'remove' constraints that are defined in the base structure.  However, in some cases constraints in a child model may render an inherited constraint irrelevant.  For example, if a constraint says "must have name or birthDate" but the child profile makes name 1..1 or 0..0, the constraint would be confusing.  In these circumstances, the child profile can update the 'human' property of the constraint to say something along the lines of "No longer relevant based on profile constraints" or something like that to minimize such confusion.}}
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Clarify removal of mappings in profiles
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51439

## Comments

_No comments in export._
