# FHIR-51752: Datatype of Expression.name should be string

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This wouldn't change anything for the property. The invariant exp-2 is tighter than both types. (it is the regex for it, though that could be heavily simplified, but just having it on the name property)
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/22/26
- **Created**: 8/13/25
- **Description**: The data type of Expression.name was changed from R4 to R5 from id to code (FHIR-25515). However a code needs a required binding. Other names in e.g. StructureDefinition or Codesystem are strings. So Expression.name should be a string with regex too.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51752
- **Related Page(s)**: Metadata Types
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/metadatatypes.html
- **Reporter**: AlexanderKiel
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: There is no requirement that elements of type 'code' have a binding.  The choice of the 'code' type was because the allowed values of this element is constrained in a similar manner to codes and because it will appear in logic in a non-quoted fashion.

Will add a note on the element that says "This element is defined with a data type of code because of its behavior, not because of any expectation it will be bound to a value set."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Datatype of Expression.name should be string
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51752

## Comments

### 1. Brian Postlethwaite - 1/22/26
Security: Public

This wouldn't change anything for the property. The invariant exp-2 is tighter than both types. (it is the regex for it, though that could be heavily simplified, but just having it on the name property)

