# FHIR-18990: Subscription should not rely on tag

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 9/30/18
- **Description**: Currently, the subscription resource describes the Subscription.tag as  "A tag to add to any resource that matches the criteria, after the subscription is processed... So that other systems can tell which resources have been the subject of a notification."

         In discussion, this was surprising to several at the Sep 2018 Connectathon. Several initially assumed this was to be added to the subscription. Once we confirmed that it should be added by the server to resources that are sent to servers via notification:


	What if version 1 and 2 were the only versions of the resource that was sent out on a notification? The caller would only be able to tell in history (and history would need to be maintained)?




	Should tag updates be able to trigger notifications themselves? What about this type of tag update? Where does it stop? 



         It was suggested that we should use CommunicationRequest (or Communication?) to record the notification from the system to the receiver instead to track these types of events instead of the tag element, and we should remove Subscription.tag from the resource and add documentation to cover this scenario.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-18990
- **Reporter**: Jenni Syed
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Subscription should not rely on tag

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-18990

## Comments

_No comments in export._
