# FHIR-47365: Subscription notification holding logical model instances.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: The event trigger definitions section of SubscriptionTopic indicates SubscriptionTopics can also be defined for non-FHIR events.
... If there is no logical resource available (e.g., events referencing non-FHIR events), resources such as Parameters or Basic are available. Note that it is not required to use a FHIR resource in this context, but use of non-FHIR-core structures (e.g., Logical Models) or non-FHIR definitions (e.g., a CDS Hook definition) limit access to standard filters. Topics can define filters in-line to enable filtering, but authors need to keep in mind additional implementation complexity.
The specification suggests that using Basic or Parameters, event notifications can use non-FHIR data. This is certainly something that we need to support. But I do not think the suggested solution allows this on its own.

The use of Basic requires the content to implement the mandatory fields of Basic. A Parameters resource can only point to FHIR resources and/or data types.

I think the specification should include more clearly in what way such messages can be supported (e.g. using Binary resources or Parameters that include Attachments).
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47365
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Parameters

SubscriptionTopic
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptiontopic.html#definition-event
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Subscription notification holding logical model instances.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47365

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

