# FHIR-42709: Provide a code on Expression

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Summarizing the discussion from an email thread, the intent of this change is to support identifying the expression as equivalent to some code in a coding system, for example a LOINC code for "Number of Beds" could be used to provide meaning for the expression. There are formula and procedures that are used to compute/evaluate/product an observable value or assessment for an entity.  These observable values are also coded in LOINC or another terminology system with an associated definition.  The idea is that some measures may have codes that reference a (perhaps uncomputable, but somehow humanly interpretable into code) definition for how to compute them in addition to being represented in a computable expression.  What we want is a way to apply a code to those computations.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/5/23
- **Created**: 9/9/23
- **Description**: Currently, Measure.group.population.criteria has the ability reference an expression, but not by way of a coding system, e.g., LOINC that provides the fundamental definition.  We propose to add Expression.code CodeableConcept 0..1 enabling a re-use of expressions using a coding system for the base definition where multiple equivalent expressions (e.g., CQL vs. FHIR Path vs. SQL or whatever represent the same logical/conceptual expression.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42709
- **Reporter**: Hans Buitendijk
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Provide a code on Expression

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42709

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 10/5/23
Security: Public

Summarizing the discussion from an email thread, the intent of this change is to support identifying the expression as equivalent to some code in a coding system, for example a LOINC code for "Number of Beds" could be used to provide meaning for the expression. There are formula and procedures that are used to compute/evaluate/product an observable value or assessment for an entity.  These observable values are also coded in LOINC or another terminology system with an associated definition.  The idea is that some measures may have codes that reference a (perhaps uncomputable, but somehow humanly interpretable into code) definition for how to compute them in addition to being represented in a computable expression.  What we want is a way to apply a code to those computations.

### 2. Bryn Rhodes - 10/5/23
Security: Public

So a proposed disposition is:

Add a code 0..1 CodeableConcept element to the Expression datatype:

Short: Meaning of the expression
Definition: A code that identifies the meaning of the expression. For example, "Number of Beds"
Comment: There are formula and procedures that are used to compute/evaluate/product an observable value or assessment for an entity. These observable values are also coded in LOINC or another terminology system with an associated definition. The idea is that some measures may have codes that reference a (perhaps uncomputable, but somehow humanly interpretable into code) definition for how to compute them in addition to being represented in a computable expression. What we want is a way to apply a code to those computations.

### 3. Paul Denning - 10/5/23
Security: Public

http://build.fhir.org/metadatatypes.html#Expression

http://build.fhir.org/measure-definitions.html#Measure.group.population.criteria

### 4. Paul Denning - 10/6/23
Security: Public

Motion: Bryn Rhodes/Juliet Rubini:

For-Against-Abstain: 26-0-0

Proposal is for CQI WG to endorse the addition the CodeableConcept (0..1) on Expression.

Issue will be transferred to FHIR-I who owns Expression.

See https://confluence.hl7.org/download/attachments/131040722/USCDI_Plus_Data_Elements_SituationalAwreness_12.29.2022.xlsx?version=1&amp;modificationDate=1696445144934&amp;api=v2 for example of LOINC codes

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 10/23/23
Security: Public

We're ok with this in principle, however:

	We think it should be Coding (0..1 or 0..*??), not CodeableConcept, as the free-text description of the Expression is already handled by Expression.description - unless you feel those are somehow different?
	This seems like something that should be handled via an extension from an 80% perspective.



Also, in reviewing the type, we think that both 'name' and 'reference' need to be more robustly defined.  We would like to see a proposal that clarifies these elements and their relationships, as well as the relationships with this new 'code' element (whether core or expression).

### 6. Hans Buitendijk - 10/23/23
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie : I would agree that using Coding as the data type would be appropriate as not only is there already a free text description, but this is meant to resolve to an entry in a code system/value set.

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/18/24
Security: Public

Bryn Rhodes can you come to a FHIR-I call to discuss these questions/modifications?

Also, to be clear, these codes would not be tied 1..1 to specific CQL or FHIRPath, but instead this is more of code describing a 'type of calculatable data element' where the calculation mechanism can vary by context.

### 8. Corey Spears - 4/15/24
Security: Public

Bryn, Can you please attend a FHIR-I session to discuss?

### 9. Bryn Rhodes - 10/11/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir-extensions/pull/213

