# FHIR-44616: Inter-version extensions when mandatory polymorphic type allows more types

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Will update this ticket once the relevant content is confirmed in the guides.
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 11/4/25
- **Created**: 1/30/24
- **Description**: E.g. Task.input.value is 1..1 and allows more types in R5 than in R4.  If you want to use one of the R5 types, you can do that using inter-version extensions.  However, you still need to satisfy the 'mandatory' in R4.  We need an extension we can put on an otherwise empty 'value' element to satisfy the R4 that says "this element is here to satisfy the model, but doesn't really exist because the mandatory requirement is actually satisfied by an inter-version extension."

We might want to look at whether we can use the same mechanism to allow satisfying mandatory elements that have been removed or made optional in future versions
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44616
- **Related Page(s)**: Managing Multiple Versions
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Systems SHALL annotate required elements that cannot be provided when using inter-version-conversion by using the extension: {{http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/data-absent-reason}} with the code {{unsupported}}.  Systems seeing the {{unsupported}} DAR can key off the presence of a cross-version extension to understand that the previous system (source) had the data available but not a supported way to represent in the earlier (or later) version.  When processing the data, it is valid for a system to remove the {{unsupported}} DAR if it is possible to apply the data instead (e.g., converting the resource to a version that _does_ contain a compatible definition).

When converting resources between versions, if there is a required element that does not have data (e.g., an element that was optional and became required) a system can indicate that by use of the same extension and code.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Inter-version extensions when mandatory polymorphic type allows more types
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44616

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/4/25
Security: Public

Will update this ticket once the relevant content is confirmed in the guides.

