# FHIR-54519: Please align Narrative behavior with general behavior or explicitly carve out an exception with FHIR-i

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Khalid Shahin
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Bas van den Heuvel 
This needs to be discussed with FHIR-I.
There is already specific guidance in FHIR Clinical Documents IG.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/19/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: I assume that Composition resource Narrative refers to the Composition.text field. The definition of this field states
"A human-readable narrative that contains a summary of the resource and can be used to represent the content of the resource to a human. The narrative need not encode all the structured data, but is required to contain sufficient detail to make it "clinically safe" for a human to just read the narrative. Resource definitions may define what content should be represented in the narrative to ensure clinical safety. ".
This leads to the assumption that both subject and the section.text fields are included in the composition.text. If this is not the case, please state so explicitly and align with FHIRi to document this deviation of the rule for Composition resources.

If section.text is excluded, the narrative should hold a desription of the header information (including author, custodian, subject, ...).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54519
- **Related Page(s)**: Documents
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.4.1.1
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Please align Narrative behavior with general behavior or explicitly carve out an exception with FHIR-i
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54519

## Comments

### 1. Khalid Shahin - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Bas van den Heuvel 
This needs to be discussed with FHIR-I.
There is already specific guidance in FHIR Clinical Documents IG.

### 2. John D'Amore - 5/19/26
Security: Public

Discussed at SDWG 19 May 2026. The primary suggested edits relate to the Document page so removing Compossition and profiled and changing assigned work group.

