# FHIR-17159: When multiple components are profiled, the bindings table is very hard to interpret

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: discussion with Lloyd:



         1. Don't expose binding if there's a fixed value2. If a binding is only inherited from the parent, just list the element and indicate that it's inherited from the parent profile instead of listing all positions3. When listing paths, include the slice names4. Group by ValueSet name and conformance5. If all the slices are the same, just list the unsliced element
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/14/18
- **Created**: 5/14/18
- **Description**: Example output from http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/genomics-reporting/2018May/obs-described-variant.html#tx &#8211; there needs to be some separation between components in a list like this to make the IG build output readable.
- **Grouping**: [FHIR-Tools-IG]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-17159
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/genomics-reporting/2018May/obs-described-variant.html#tx
- **Reporter**: Josh Mandel
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: When multiple components are profiled, the bindings table is very hard to interpret

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-17159

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 5/14/18
Security: Public

discussion with Lloyd:



         1. Don't expose binding if there's a fixed value2. If a binding is only inherited from the parent, just list the element and indicate that it's inherited from the parent profile instead of listing all positions3. When listing paths, include the slice names4. Group by ValueSet name and conformance5. If all the slices are the same, just list the unsliced element

