# FHIR-47290: Subscription - get-es-binding-token - Logical ID instead of FHIR id

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/10/24
- **Description**: At the Instance level, this parameter is ignored. At the Resource level, one or more parameters containing a FHIR id for a Subscription to get a token for. In the absence of any specified ids, the server may either return a token for all Subscriptions available to the caller with a channel-type of websocket or fail the request.
There are many FHIR id's, I suggest to use logical id to indicate the id of the resource.
At the Instance level, this parameter is ignored. At the Resource level, one or more parameters containing the logical id for the Subscription to get a token for. In the absence of any specified ids, the server may either return a token for all Subscriptions available to the caller with a channel-type of websocket or fail the request.
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47290
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Subscription - get-es-binding-token - Logical ID instead of FHIR id

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47290

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/4/25
Security: Public

For FHIR R6, this operation and the websocket details are moving to an external guide. Will update this ticket when the changes are confirmed in the guide.

