# FHIR-47251: Multiline orders / prescriptions - add support and guidance

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Perhaps this should also be in the Request pattern? I don't know how to add it
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/15/24
- **Created**: 9/9/24
- **Description**: In several existing implementations and specifications, a medication prescription may contain one or multiple lines of medication: ISO 17523 (2024 ballot version), IHE CMPD. To confirm the need, based on the documentation collected, HL7 / IHE MPD Working group concluded in May (05  and 16) that national implementations have that requirement - The majority of the respondents supported multiple lines in a prescription (7 out of 11). 
While the workflow aspects of multi-line prescriptions vary, it is a common need for hospital and also for community. Countries who are currently using single-line prescriptions reported that even when multi-line orders are not needed in their community pharmacy prescription workflows, they will become a business requirement in their hospital medication projects. Hospital requests are often dependent on each other in a way that changing or canceling one medication must also change/cancel the other medication treatment, because the treatment only works when these medications are administered as one scheme. The patient may be on other medications at the same time, but those are all independent treatment lines, and would not necessarily have to be communicated as part of the same request.
FHIR requests are for a single item - which is technically adequate - and provides some different mechanisms that could be used for grouping orders; but there is a lack of unambiguous support or guidance covering all the requirements in multiple line prescriptions. As such, implementers have various ways to start addressing the problem. 
Across national implementations, a few had chosen at least 4 different approaches for grouping multiple MedicationRequests under one prescription:

	groupIdentifier in MedicationRequest and the actual grouping maintained outside FHIR infrastructure
	RequestOrchestration
	Bundle
	CarePlan resource
Multiple countries reported that they had wanted to use MedicationRequest also as the parent prescription (esp when the statuses are handled on both levels) but failed to implement it due to MedicationRequest having Medication mandatory. A dummy-medication had been considered to work around that limitation.
This also reflects on retrieving prescriptions in a hybrid scenario (e.g. cross-border, or community vs hospital) - which resources to retrieve and which search parameters to use, and where are the attributes - in the line or in the group: In countries where prescriptions can contain multiple medication lines, some of the attributes like effective date, priority, etc. are at the level of the prescription (group), not of the line.
The problem description can be synthesized by looking at one of the proposed solutions: Allow MedicationRequest to have a special "kind" which would contain other medication requests for grouping purposes
The Gemini project can provide extensions and guidance but the core spec should indicate the basic mechanisms and possibly be improved.




What is not working: 

	Lack of support for (medication) request  grouping that is supportive of "prescription" is requiring different scattered approaches risking interoperability.
	Because of grouping, "medication prescription" can not be represented by "MedicationRequest" in all cases
	Searching for a "prescription" is ambiguous: is it a search on MedRequest.identifier? Or on medRequest.groupingIdentifier? Or a request on RequestOrchestration.identifier? Or CarePlan.identifier?
Request to adjust FHIR specification by: 
	Define or confirm a grouping mechanism to support prescriptions with multiple lines (possibly aligning with other requests like lab) where lines can have independent status but are interrelated - for example for medication, this would require aligning across WGs - CDS, PHARM, FHIR-I:
	Provide guidance or updates on adding elements that are currently in medicationRequest - reimbursement, reported, supportingInformation
	Provide guidance on which resource for grouping (if RequestOrchestration, consider renaming to allow for "grouping with no real orchestration") and make adjustments to that resource as needed.
	Adjust search parameters to support searching on "prescription" regardless if "Prescription" is represented by a MedRequest or another resource.
	Describe the workflow especially around different scenarios including single- and multiple-line prescriptions.
	OR allow for solutions like allowing MedicationRequest (or the Request pattern) to have a special "kind" which would contain other medication requests for grouping purposes - which is deviating from the requests but would actually solve the problems in each domain.
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47251
- **Related Artifact(s)**: MedicationRequest

RequestOrchestration (was RequestGroup)
- **Related Page(s)**: Patterns
- **Reporter**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: # We will define a new shared search parameter called group-or-identifier of type token that searches against Request.identifier and Request.groupIdentifier
 # In the Request notes, we will remove the sentence "The different 'option' requests referenced by the RequestOrchestration SHOULD NOT have a .groupIdentifier specified as they are all considered part of the RequestOrchestration order."
 # We will add a new guidance into the section that says "While there might always be a business notion of an encompassing "prescription" or "requisition" object around a set of medication line items, ordered lab tests, etc., there may not always be a corresponding FHIR resource.  Systems should therefore always query against the individual Request resource.  This might be by identifier, groupIdentifier, or other criteria.  In situations where there is RequestOrchestration that is relevant to one or more of the returned requests, that will be signaled by the fact that the Request.intent will be "option".  The retrieved line items can then be organized into their higher level groupings using groupingIdentifier and/or associated RequestOrchestration as desired."
 # We will submit a change request to change the Task.focus from 0..1 to 0..* and add a comment on the element saying "Typically a Task should only have one focus.  If multiple focuses are provided, then action must be taken the complete set as a whole.  I.e. All must be accepted, rejected, cancelled, held, completed, etc. as a whole.  If there is a possibility to have different statuses for different focuses, then there SHALL be a separate Task instance for each focus.".  This will allow solicitation of fulfillment of a collection of line items as a single unit of work.
 # We will submit change requests against all of the Request resources asking for them to include a link to the Compound Requests guidance on the Request pattern with language such as "In some cases, multiple instances of this resource may be combined into a larger order.  Guidance on how to manage such requirements can be found in the [Request pattern](request.html#compound) page."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Multiline orders / prescriptions - add support and guidance
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47251

## Comments

### 1. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 9/15/24
Security: Public

Perhaps this should also be in the Request pattern? I don't know how to add it

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 9/16/24
Security: Public

'grouping' and RequestOrchestration have two different purposes.  Both are needed.  A multi-line prescription might be represented using one or the other depending on whether the lines are intertwined or not.

Bundle is not a great way of handling grouping as there are no semantics to the 'Bundle' and there's a need for the resources to exist as stand-alone resources.

CarePlan can work, but should typically not be necessary.

Thus far, aside from RequestOrchestration for complex interdependent orders (no status for individual lines), there's been no use-case provided for a 'wrapper' resource that needs to have its own status.  (There may be some use-cases around the 'fulfillment' of a collection of line items.)

