# FHIR-57502: Replace Request.replaces with Request.releatesTo (instead of the changes in FHIR-54876)

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We definitely don't want to change this to 'relatesTo', as that's a generic assertion that could be true of any reference element.  It's not clear how the change to the ServiceRequest definition is in any way inconsistent with the original intention.  'replaces' was always intended for things like a 'renewal' prescription.  Whether or not it invalidates the previous order varies by business practice.  It's certainly possible that the creation of a Request with a 'replaces' could trigger the stopping of the prior Request, but there was never a requirement that this occur.  The definition actually implied that the transition of the target Request needed to happen first.  The use-case raised in FHIR-54876 is a completely reasonable use of this element and it would be problematic to have to have a completely new relationship for "replaces once the target is ended".

What we could do is clarify "If the target resource is not already in an 'ended' state, the creation of the 'replacing' resource cannot be presumed to automatically transition the target resource into an ended state.  However, implementations MAY choose to agree to such a workflow shortcut if that meets the requirements of their implementation community."

We want to hear from Vassil Peytchev before we vote on this however.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/8/26
- **Created**: 6/3/26
- **Description**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54876 changes the meaning of Request.replaces in ways that are backwards incompatible, confusing, and likely dangerous.

Given the historically entrneched use of document relationships, where "replaces" always invalidates the original document, it is better to use the same pattern as DocumentReference.relatesTo.
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57502
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Request Pattern
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/request.html
- **Reporter**: Vassil Peytchev
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Replace Request.replaces with Request.releatesTo (instead of the changes in FHIR-54876)
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57502

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/8/26
Security: Public

We definitely don't want to change this to 'relatesTo', as that's a generic assertion that could be true of any reference element.  It's not clear how the change to the ServiceRequest definition is in any way inconsistent with the original intention.  'replaces' was always intended for things like a 'renewal' prescription.  Whether or not it invalidates the previous order varies by business practice.  It's certainly possible that the creation of a Request with a 'replaces' could trigger the stopping of the prior Request, but there was never a requirement that this occur.  The definition actually implied that the transition of the target Request needed to happen first.  The use-case raised in FHIR-54876 is a completely reasonable use of this element and it would be problematic to have to have a completely new relationship for "replaces once the target is ended".

What we could do is clarify "If the target resource is not already in an 'ended' state, the creation of the 'replacing' resource cannot be presumed to automatically transition the target resource into an ended state.  However, implementations MAY choose to agree to such a workflow shortcut if that meets the requirements of their implementation community."

We want to hear from Vassil Peytchev before we vote on this however.

