# FHIR-48829: Decide on moving ProvenanceOfRelevantHistory profiles out of the core

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Provenance of Relevant History is not authored or justified by Security WG. This is a creation for the purpose of the Workflow patterns, and should be owned by FHIR-I.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/13/24
- **Created**: 11/13/24
- **Description**: From https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179192-fmg/topic/FHIR.20Core.20Profiles.20proposal
FMG has been considering which profiles should belong in the Core Specification and which should more properly be maintained in separate Implementation Guides. We clarified the rules on what justifies a profile to be part of the core specification and performed a #fmg &gt; FHIR Core Profiles review on the current profiles in core.

Of the current profiles in the core spec, there is a large set that should now probably be moved to CRMI, CDS, EBM or even deleted. Moving them to IGs instead of the core will keep the core lean and will allow you to continue to iterate on them even as the core slows.

In this sheet (first tab) you can find our Proposal for all existing profiles, plus in the GG (@Grahame Grieve) column the more specific suggestion for what action to take.

Can you please review this and, where the WG thinks this should really remain as part of core, let us know for which profiles you'd like to make the case that they do fit the criteria for a core profile? Given the expected slowdown after R6, we'd like to make this change already in the R6 version of the core.
 

For the Security WG that concerns this profile that still needs a decision:



ProvenanceRelevantHistory
https://build.fhir.org/provenance-relevant-history.html





Please see the sheet for more details.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48829
- **Reporter**: Ward Weistra
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Decide on moving ProvenanceOfRelevantHistory profiles out of the core

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48829

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 11/13/24
Security: Public

Provenance of Relevant History is not authored or justified by Security WG. This is a creation for the purpose of the Workflow patterns, and should be owned by FHIR-I.

### 2. John Moehrke - 11/13/24
Security: Public

Moving this out of core would be related to questions around the Workflow patterns. Thus is more appropriate for FHIR-I to decide.

