# FHIR-53811: Clarify hasValue() and getValue()

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Corey Spears
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: While the FHIRPath specification is owned by ITS, this appears to be a comment on the FHIR Core fhirpath page (https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html#fn-hasValue) which is owned by FHIR-I
- **Assignee**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Comments**: 1/16/26
- **Created**: 1/5/26
- **Description**: Clarify the behavior of getValue() and hasValue(). This is a continuation of a ticket that was incorrectly created against FHIRPath (https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44742). The following is a proposed disposition:

1. Clarify description of hasValue():

Current wording:
If the input collection contains a single value which is a FHIR primitive, then will return true if the single value is a primitive value (e.g., as opposed to not having a value and just having extensions) and false if not. If the input collection isn't a single FHIR primitive, the return value is empty.

Proposed wording:
If the input collection contains a single value which is a FHIR primitive, this function will return true if that primitive has a value (as opposed to not having a value and just having extensions) and false if not. If the input collection isn't a single FHIR primitive, the result is an empty collection.

2. Clarify description of getValue():

Current wording: ... Otherwise, the return value is empty

Proposed wording: ... Otherwise, the result is an empty collection.

3. Clarify that hasValue() and getValue() are not defined for system primitives.

Note that the engines are currently inconsistent about this, but they should be brought into alignment. The majority support hasValue(), but only about half support getValue(), including .NET and Java engines, and it makes sense for hasValue and getValue not to be defined because they are in fact implementation primitives, they don't have a "value" element, so it's a very confusing thing to say that they do.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53811
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-53948: Clarification in Using FHIR Types in Expressions
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Reporter**: Bryn Rhodes
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Waiting for Input
- **Summary**: Clarify hasValue() and getValue()
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53811

## Comments

### 1. Corey Spears - 1/16/26
Security: Public

While the FHIRPath specification is owned by ITS, this appears to be a comment on the FHIR Core fhirpath page (https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html#fn-hasValue) which is owned by FHIR-I

### 2. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53948 covers much of the same content, will wait on that disposition to resolve.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

2026.01.28 - WGM Wednesday Q4 FHIR-I Discussion:
Related to https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53948 and needs draft content. Thanks!

