# FHIR-40497: move "A HEAD request can also be used - <a href="#head">see below</a>."

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/8/25
- **Created**: 2/21/23
- **Description**: change
This returns a single instance with the content specified for the resource type for that version of the resource. The returned resource SHALL have an id element with a value that is the &#91;id&#93;, and a meta.versionId element with a value of &#91;vid&#93;. Servers SHOULD return an ETag header with the versionId (if versioning is supported) and a Last-Modified header.

The Version Id ("vid") is an opaque identifier that conforms to the same format requirements as a Logical Id. The version Id may have been found by performing a history interaction (see below), by recording the version id from a content location returned from a read or from a version specific reference in a content model. If the version referred to is actually one where the resource was deleted, the server should return a 410 Gone status code (see the delete interaction for addition details).

Servers are encouraged to support a version specific retrieval of the current version of the resource even if they do not provide access to previous versions. If a request is made for a previous version of a resource, and the server does not support accessing previous versions (either generally, or for this particular resource), it should return a 404 Not Found error, with an operation outcome explaining that history is not supported for the underlying resource type or instance.

A HEAD request can also be used - see below.
to
This returns a single instance with the content specified for the resource type for that version of the resource. The returned resource SHALL have an id element with a value that is the &#91;id&#93;, and a meta.versionId element with a value of &#91;vid&#93;. Servers SHOULD return an ETag header with the versionId (if versioning is supported) and a Last-Modified header.

The Version Id ("vid") is an opaque identifier that conforms to the same format requirements as a Logical Id. The version Id may have been found by performing a history interaction (see below), by recording the version id from a content location returned from a read or from a version specific reference in a content model. If the version referred to is actually one where the resource was deleted, the server should return a 410 Gone status code (see the delete interaction for addition details). A HEAD request can also be used to retrieve the version id - see below.

Servers are encouraged to support a version specific retrieval of the current version of the resource even if they do not provide access to previous versions. If a request is made for a previous version of a resource, and the server does not support accessing previous versions (either generally, or for this particular resource), it should return a 404 Not Found error, with an operation outcome explaining that history is not supported for the underlying resource type or instance.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40497
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.2.0.3 vread
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: move "A HEAD request can also be used - <a href="#head">see below</a>."

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40497

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 7/8/25
Security: Public

Merged in https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3442

