# FHIR-51725: CompartmentDefinition needs to set expectation for including params

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2025-08-11 00:00:00.0 with vote Elliot Silver/Grahame Grieve: 11-0-0//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Correction; Version: null)//Resource isn't normative, so adding the invariant is fine.  We can finness past versions that violate the rule via inter-version conversion.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/3/25
- **Created**: 8/11/25
- **Description**: Right now, it's possible to have resources listed in a compartment with nothing more than 'code'.  This should be an error.

Suggest adding two invariants:

	Must have at least one of param or documentation.  Ideally this is an error, but we may have issues about backward compatibility.  Only the core spec defines compartments, but the tooling has erroneously broken this rule in the past.  Maybe define the rule and put out technical corrections?  (ick)
	Best practice warning: resources with no search parameters listed means that the definition isn't computable and some systems may ignore the resource for the purposes of determination of inclusion in the compartment or may interpret the documentation differently in their implementation of the compartment.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51725
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CompartmentDefinition
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: The proposal doesn't reflect how things will work.

We will remove the sentence: "Resources may also be included in a compartment based on rules stated in CompartmentDefinition.resource.documentation, though the lack of a computable representation of the inclusion rules means there may be inconsistency in implementation."

We will add a sentence saying "Each CompartmentDefinition instance will list all resources available for that FHIR release.  (Additional resources are handled separately.)  Listed resources that have one or more .param elements are considered part of the compartment.  Listed resources that do not have a .param element are considered to be outside the compartment."

Will also add a note saying "Resources that are not part of a compartment MAY still be returned in searches against the compartment by using the _include mechanism.  Local convention can also include additional resources in compartment-based retrieval operations such as $everything."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: CompartmentDefinition needs to set expectation for including params
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51725

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/3/25
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Persuasive made 2025-08-11 00:00:00.0 with vote Elliot Silver/Grahame Grieve: 11-0-0//(Impact: Non-compatible; Category: Correction; Version: null)//Resource isn't normative, so adding the invariant is fine.  We can finness past versions that violate the rule via inter-version conversion.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/3/25
Security: Public

Grahame Grieve/Brian Postlethwaite: 16-0-0

