# FHIR-51605: Compartments are defined by search parameter names

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/31/25
- **Description**: It appears that compartments are defined by search parameter names (or chained parameters). However, the name is not a unique identifier for a search parameter, since they can be remapped by an implementation.

It should be clarified that the {{param }}element is intended to align with an implementations current configuration. Or the element should be modified to use search parameter canonicals.

Either way, it should be clarified that the CompartmentDefinition instances in the core spec use the default names of the search parameters from the core spec (or clarified appropriately if this is not the case).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51605
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CompartmentDefinition
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "The name of a search parameter that represents the link to the compartment. More than one may be listed because a resource may be linked to a compartment in more than one way,."

to

"The search parameter 'code' as defined in the core specification that represents the link to the compartment."

Add comment:

"More than one may be listed because a resource may be linked to a compartment in more than one way.  Note that a given server might use a different 'code' for the SearchParameter in their CapabilityStatement.  The inclusion rules are based on the 'base' HL7 search parameter code value, not the server-specific code value.  E.g. if a server uses code 'doc' instead of 'performer' for their Procedure performer search performer, the 'doc' search would still apply when determining membership in the Practitioner compartment."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Compartments are defined by search parameter names
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51605

## Comments

_No comments in export._
