# FHIR-46628: Add a new hierarchy for TestPlan called TestScenario

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Our initial inclination is that we should allow testCase to contain testCase.  Richard Ettema do you remember why we chose not to do that?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/26/24
- **Created**: 8/13/24
- **Description**: Currently the TestPlan has a fairly flat structure between TestPlan and TestCase (0**1).  This does not align with many approaches to developing TestPlan - where Scenario's are a group of associated TestCases related to one set of actors/actions around a use case.  Where a separate Scenario might be defined for a different action/operation. 

It would benefits Testers if we could nest TestCases within TestScenarios with a single TestPlan.

For those who do not wish to use the TestScenario they can simple group all associated TestPlan test cases under a single (default) TestScenario.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46628
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestPlan
- **Related Page(s)**: Backbone Element
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/testplan.html
- **Reporter**: Mario Hyland
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add a new hierarchy for TestPlan called TestScenario

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46628

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/26/24
Security: Public

Our initial inclination is that we should allow testCase to contain testCase.  Richard Ettema do you remember why we chose not to do that?

### 2. Richard Ettema - 9/10/24
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie the TestPlan resource was added just under the wire for the R5 release with a FMM of 0. We expected that the structure would need additional work.

I agree that the best approach would be to allow testCase to contain testCase.

### 3. Richard Ettema - 2/26/25
Security: Public

PR https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3322

