# FHIR-47738: Need for a forward link to another requirement statement

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Karl Naden
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: meant to submit this as a change request
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/16/24
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: the statement element contains several backward looking properties to refer to other requirements, including parent and derivedFrom, that the statement is related to. However, it doesn't contain any ways to represent forward links. For example, many Da Vinci IGs reference the HRex IG, specifically its Security and Privacy Section, e.g., here in the Formulary IG
Authenticated API: Access to the formulary service when integrated with protected health information (PHI) or personally identifiable information (PII) as part of the Patient Access API SHALL be protected through an authorized, authenticated transaction as described in the Da Vinci Health Record Exchange (HRex) FHIR Implementation Guide Security and Privacy Section.
Assuming that you have also represented the requirements on the linked page within a FHIR Requirements instance, I think you would want to be able to link a statement representing this requirement to those requirements.

I'm not sure what the right relationship is. Some possibilities:

	child: doesn't feel quite right because this is not a two-way relationship. In the example, the HRex requirements do not have their own link to the Formulary requirement, so it wouldn't seem right to consider it a parent.
	linkedRequirement or subRequirement or referencedRequirement: one of these or similar would feel better



Regardless, this would be a multi-response element with similar values to parent and derivedFrom.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47738
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Requirements
- **Reporter**: Karl Naden
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add Requirements.imports 0..* of type backbone

short: "External requirements that apply here"

definition: "Points to requirements defined elsewhere that have the same force as if they were defined in this instance"

comment: "A given requirement should either appear here OR be listed as a derivedFrom in a statement, but not both.  I.e. you either include the referenced requirement unchanged or you include it in a qualified manner."

child elements:
 * requirements 1..1 canonical "Source of imported statements" "The canonical for the Requirements resource to import statements from"

 * key 0..* id "Statement key" "The key of a statement to treat as part of the set of requirements defined in this instance"

comment: "If no keys are specified, then the interpretation is that all statements in the referenced Requirements instance apply to this instance.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Need for a forward link to another requirement statement
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47738

## Comments

### 1. Karl Naden - 9/16/24
Security: Public

meant to submit this as a change request

### 2. Bas van den Heuvel - 10/21/24
Security: Public

If parent means it is a detailed requirement whose set satisfies the parent, then the cardinality should be 0..* as the requirement could be used to satisfy more than one parent.

### 3. Karl Naden - 10/28/24
Security: Public

Clarifying the intent and providing a worked example of what I think is needed:

Need a way to represent a reference from one requirement to another that “to meet this requirement, you need to meet these X other requirements”. This is needed particularly in the context of references from one FHIR IG to another. For example in CRD:
Implementers SHALL adhere to any security and privacy rules defined by: … HRex: Privacy &amp; Security.
The referenced page in HRex contains many requirements, including the following two around Additionally Protected Information:
Where permitted by law and in accordance with legal requirements, systems SHALL always support release of additionally protected information.
Implementations SHALL ensure that release of the information without explicit request of the patient/member is based on organization policy consistent with Federal and State regulations. Examples are legal request for information and “break glass” to treat a patient that is unable to provide consent.
The Requirements resource should support this kind of pattern. I think it should do so in a way that avoids the duplication of the reference requirements. 

 

One way to do that would be to have a multiple-response property like Requirements.statement.substatement that contains a list of the linked requirements.  Then you’d have something like


{
  “resourceType”: “Requirements”,
  “title”: “HRex Requirements”,
  “Statement”: [
    {
      “key”: “1”,
      “requirement”: “Where permitted by law and in accordance with legal requirements, systems SHALL…”
    },
    {
      “key”: “2”,
      “requirement”: “Implementations SHALL ensure that release…”      
    },
    ...
  ]
}



And

 


{
  “resourceType”: “Requirements”,
  “title”: “CRD Requirements”,
  “Statement”: [
    {
      “key”: “1”,
      “requirement”: “Implementers SHALL adhere to any security and privacy rules defined by: … HRex: Privacy &amp; Security.”
      “Substatement”: [
        { “key”: “1”, “canonical”: “&lt;HRex Requirements canonical url&gt;” }
        { “key”: “2”, “canonical”: “&lt;HRex Requirements canonical url&gt;” }
      ]
    },
    ...
  ]
}

### 4. Grahame Grieve - 2/28/25
Security: Public

Used .canonical instead of .requirements for consistency with task 47739

