# FHIR-51607: Document how compartments are expanded for post-R6 resources

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: See also https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50846

I think the gist of this is that additional resources aren't 'officially' in compartments until such time as the resource moves into core?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/12/25
- **Created**: 7/31/25
- **Description**: If we assume that the CompartmentDefinition instances in the core spec are definitional (see FHIR-51604) rather than example, we need to document for how to expand compartments for non-core resources. I presume we would only add new compartments with a future FHIR release, but non-core resources could be approved at any time.

Are new resources excluded from compartments until a new FHIR release? Does the IG that defines the new resource also define updates to the CompartmentDefinition instances documenting which compartments the new resource is in? If so, do we need a mechanism to merge CompartmentDefinition instances from multiple sources to get an effective definition?

The spec should be updated to add clarity how compartments will be managed post-R6.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51607
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CompartmentDefinition
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will define a new 0..* complex extension in the tooling IG called additionalResourceCompartment with context StructureDefinition with a contextConstraint requiring the type to be Resource (and if we have a way of doing so, requiring it to be an additionalResourc)
Definition: "Indicates a compartment membership determination for an additional resource."
Two components:

"compartment" 1..1. canonical(CompartmentDefinition) "The compartment this additional resource can be a member of"

"param" 0..* string "The name of the SearchParameter or chained parameter that determines membership in the compartment.  If no repetitions are specified, then the additional resource is never considered a member of the compartment."

"documentation" 0..1 string "Additional documentation about the resource's membership in the compartment"

"startParam" 0..1 uri "Search Parameter for interpreting $everything.start"

"endParam" 0..1 uri "Search Parameter for interpreting $everything.end"
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Document how compartments are expanded for post-R6 resources
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51607

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/12/25
Security: Public

See also https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50846

I think the gist of this is that additional resources aren't 'officially' in compartments until such time as the resource moves into core?

### 2. Elliot Silver - 8/12/25
Security: Public

Correct.

This comes out of the question the role of CompartmentDefinitions, and what deviations are permitted, and how to document deviations.

My understanding from the 2025-08-11 call is that implementations do not document their deviations in CompartmentDefinitions, so that eliminates one consideration. But it still leaves open the question of whether HL7 IGs can define extended compartments along with new resources, and if so, how to merge definitions from multiple IGs, etc.

