# FHIR-54920: Index page levels need some thought

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/20/26
- **Description**: Medication Definition has always been at Level 5 "Providing the ability to reason about the healthcare process". 

That never really made sense. I suppose these are definitions, and maybe you reason with definitions, but it doesn't really work. I think that both Clinical Reasoning and Medication Definition were level 5 purely because they came along at the same time and it needed a new level. That is ok in itself, they are both sort new areas of FHIR, though the description about "reasoning" doesn't really work.

However now another definitional domain "Biological Products" has been added, but that is at Level 4. These two domains ("Biological Products" and "Medication Definition") are broadly equivalent conceptually in "level", so it doesn't make sense for one to be at lever 4 and the other at Level 5. 

Medication Definition does have ClinicalUseDefinition, which can be used for reasoning, but that is not characteristic of the whole domain.

Medication Definition should be a sibling of Biological Products. They are both about healthcare products, used in day to day healthcare (even if the details of products are also of interest to pharmaceutical companies, outside of day to day healthcare). 

If Medication definition needs to be at Level 5 for some reason, then the definition of Level 5 would need to change to be some ad hoc combination. It must not appear to restrict the use of Medication Definition to "regulatory" or "pharma" however, since it is a common misconception that these resources are only for that and that should not be perpetuated. 

But it's hard to see why Biological Products and what is essentially "Medicinal Products" are not at the same level.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54920
- **Reporter**: Rik Smithies
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Index page levels need some thought

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54920

## Comments

_No comments in export._
