# FHIR-53955: Rewrite Digital Signature Methods section

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: Rewrite the Digital Signature Methods section.

	The Smart Health Cards is a W3C Verifiable Credentials Data Model and uses JWS signature to secure it.  It is extraneous information.
	The statement about mixing formats with signature methods is conjecture or an assumption.  Most signature methods are content format agnostic and the decision may be a business decision rather than one decided by the FHIR content format.  



Proposed edits ( source at https://github.com/Healthedata1/fhir/blob/master/source/signatures.html)
Digital Signature Methods

 
This specification documents rules and guidelines on how to use the Signature data type and Provenance elements for CMS, JWS, XML, signature methods and their profiles. Other signature methods can be used, and their use with FHIR can be extrapolated from the content on this page. Note that &#91;SMART Health Cards&#93;(https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/smart-health-cards-and-links/),is a W3C Verifiable Credentials Data Model and uses a JWS signature to secure it and it has been internationally adopted for secure, granular verification of health information such as COVID-19 immunizations and test results. Implementers should note that the CMS, JWS, XML, and other signature methods are agnostic to the content format, and the choice of digital signature is independent of the format of the resource that contains the signature and the canonicalization method used. However, mixing formats may creates challenges, and implementers SHOULD generally use JSON signatures with the JSON canonicalization in JSON resources, and XML signatures with the XML canonicalization in XML resources.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53955
- **Reporter**: Eric Haas
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Rewrite Digital Signature Methods section

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53955

## Comments

_No comments in export._
