# FHIR-39485: Event.recorded is unclear

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bryn Rhodes
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: CDS reviewed and agrees with the proposed disposition, it makes sense to be able to capture recorded date from a logical perspective, independent of auditing/timestamp for the data.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/24/23
- **Created**: 11/21/22
- **Description**: The definition refers to the first time recorded in "the record", but when we're dealing with data sharing, it's not clear which 'record' that means.
- **Grouping**: [Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-39485
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Event Pattern
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add the following to the 'comments' for the 'recorded' element:

Recorded date indicates date the data was placed in the record maintained by the performing practitioner, or of disclosure by patient or RelatedPerson, not a date of record transfer.  If the record is transferred from one system to another (in paper or electronic form), it does not create a distinct recordedDate.  In most cases, performing practitioners will record on the same date the event occurred, but sometimes there are delays.  If information is being relayed second-hand, recordedDate indicates when the system is first made aware of the data.

RecordedDate is NOT intended to be the same as a database.createdTimestamp - that would be captured as part of resource.meta or possibly Provenance.

It is possible for the same event to be disclosed to different systems at different times.  E.g. a patient might tell two different clinicians about a historical event at different visits.  If the disclosure is from the patient rather than record transfer from clinician A to B, the recordedDate would be the date each respective clinician put the data in their record.  If the data flowed from clinician A to B, the recorded date would remain the recordedDate as initially set in clinician A's system.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Event.recorded is unclear
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-39485

## Comments

### 1. Bryn Rhodes - 5/24/23
Security: Public

CDS reviewed and agrees with the proposed disposition, it makes sense to be able to capture recorded date from a logical perspective, independent of auditing/timestamp for the data.

### 2. Vassil Peytchev - 3/10/25
Security: Public

Branch merged

