# FHIR-55921: Constraints on the list of Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussed re-opening to add support for comparing Codings based on display but decided to leave things as they are.  If you want to compare based on display, use enableWhenExpression.  As a rule, comparing based on display is not safe because display values are not stable.  They can change based on language, version of the code system, what code system supplements are in play, which 'designation' a system opts to use, etc.  In most cases, choices of strings should be handled with the 'string' type.  One possible option if exposing legacy data that needs to be treated as codes where an official code is not available is to treat the legacy value as both code and display.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/26/26
- **Created**: 2/19/26
- **Description**: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179255-questionnaire/topic/enableWhen.2EanswerAttachment.20vs.20enableWhen.2Eoperator/with/574402483

 

Not all operators in `Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator`  are appropriate to all types in `Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.answer&#91;x&#93;`. The recently introduced `answerAttachment` along with `answerBoolean`, `answerCoding`, `answerReference` and `answerUri` types can be restricted to `exists`, `=`, `!=`.

 

Lloyd thinks we may need some documentation on matching the attachments for equality.
- **Grouping**: [SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55921
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Questionnaire
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/questionnaire-definitions.html#Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator
- **Reporter**: AjayKanduru
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: # Add a rule that says "If the operator is not "exists", the type for the referenced enableWhen question SHALL be the same as the question type
 # The <, > , <=, >= operators are allowed for integer, decimal, date, dateTime, time, Quantity.  Add an invariant that prohibits this for other types.
 # Add a comment to enableWhen root that points to a note saying "See below for guidance on comparing answer values to enableWhen criteria"
 # In the notes, add a section called "EnableWhen comparisons" that says:
"For simple data types, enableWhen comparisons are straightforward - simply test equality (or other comparison operation) between the values. For complex types, the rules are as follows:
{*}Coding{*}: Equal if code and system are equal.
{*}Quantity{*}: Comparison is based solely on value, code and system.  Note that, depending on the constraints of the Questionnaire, it's possible for the units to differ.  In such cases, systems MAY either support unit conversion or opt to not support questionnaires that require such conversion.  Implementers might want to consider leveraging a FHIRPath engine that already has support for unit conversion, given that the logic can be complex.
*Reference* - Equal if reference values are equal, or if reference is absent for both, then identifier and (if present) type are equal.
*Attachment* - If hashes are present, compare the hashes.  If not, compare the url.  If not, compare the data.  Designers SHOULD use url or hash, not data for size reasons.

If alternative comparison operations are needed, enableWhenExpression allows the use of FHIRPath which includes options for coding weights, rounding, precision handling, equivalence (as distinct from equality), and other capabilities.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Constraints on the list of Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55921

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/26/26
Security: Public

Discussed re-opening to add support for comparing Codings based on display but decided to leave things as they are.  If you want to compare based on display, use enableWhenExpression.  As a rule, comparing based on display is not safe because display values are not stable.  They can change based on language, version of the code system, what code system supplements are in play, which 'designation' a system opts to use, etc.  In most cases, choices of strings should be handled with the 'string' type.  One possible option if exposing legacy data that needs to be treated as codes where an official code is not available is to treat the legacy value as both code and display.

