# FHIR-53999: href should not be used in narratives to reference FHIR resources

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: There are a few places in the FHIR spec that imply that href attributes within a narrative could point to FHIR resources.

1) in https://build.fhir.org/bundle.html :
These connections might be via Reference, canonical, url, or "href" references within narrative. 
 

2) in https://build.fhir.org/http.html :
Servers SHALL replace all matching links in the bundle, found in the resource ids, resource references, elements of type uri, url, oid, uuid, and &lt;a href=""&gt; &amp; &lt;img src=""&gt; in the Narrative elements in DomainResource.text or Composition.section.text
 

However, the narrative guidance page instead says to use extensions to link between narrative and resources, with no mention of using href for this: https://build.fhir.org/narrative.html#linking

 

It's unclear to me if resources should ever be referenced via href attribute. Such links would often not work (or at best lead to raw data) if provided to a user directly (e.g., in browser). More importantly, with the current lack of guidance, different display implementations of the narrative might handle this differently, which could be clinically unsafe.

 

At the very least, above mentions of using href should be removed (and maybe explicitly discouraged), or the narrative page should mention explicitly how this should be handled during display (like is done for the &lt;img src&gt; attribute:  https://build.fhir.org/narrative.html#id ).

 

In my opinion, removing the mention of hrefs to FHIR resources is the better option, since it minimizes complexity in accurately displaying a narrative to an end user. It also dodges many possible edge cases (e.g. resolving references within a Bundle vs. RESTfully, what to do when reference resolution fails, determining if the link is actually to a FHIR resource or not, ...).

Note that references to Binary may still make sense in other, non-href attributes; this includes &lt;img src&gt; attributes, as well as Bundle.link references to a stylesheet.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53999
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)

Narrative
- **Reporter**: James Jahns
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: href should not be used in narratives to reference FHIR resources

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53999

## Comments

_No comments in export._
