# FHIR-47701: Extension attribute for lineage on Identifier datatype

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This requirement could easily apply to any data element - names, addresses, contact points, or even non-repeating elements (e.g. the Patient.birthDate was sourced from system X).  The 'official' way to do something like this right now is with Provenance, and there is a mechanism with Provenance to be able to point to specific data elements in a resource allowing full traceability of where the data came from, including where, via what process, when, etc.  However, this mechanism is quite heavy to use if all you want to know is "where did the element come from". 

We'd like to get the Security Workgroup's perspective on the possibility of adding a light-weight extension that could shortcut the Provenance mechanism to just point to a 'source' on a per element basis (supplementing the existing Resource.meta.source) element.

We will wait to make any decision until Sonja is able to join us.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/20/25
- **Created**: 9/13/24
- **Description**: Looking to add an extension to the Identifier datatype as a way to capture the lineage of an identifier. There is currently a source URL which can point to the administrative system that is managing the identifier. There is also an assigner as to where the identifier is getting assigned. However, some cases we receive multiple business identifiers for a resource from a single source but in separate fields on the incoming source. They are of the same type but we are just receiving them in separate incoming fields on our source. We would like a field to capture the lineage, or where the said identifier was received from.  Provenance instances for each element of an array seems a bit excessive.  

 

identifier-lineage 0-1 string as an extension for the Identifier datatype
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47701
- **Reporter**: Sonja Ziegler
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Extension attribute for lineage on Identifier datatype

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47701

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

This requirement could easily apply to any data element - names, addresses, contact points, or even non-repeating elements (e.g. the Patient.birthDate was sourced from system X).  The 'official' way to do something like this right now is with Provenance, and there is a mechanism with Provenance to be able to point to specific data elements in a resource allowing full traceability of where the data came from, including where, via what process, when, etc.  However, this mechanism is quite heavy to use if all you want to know is "where did the element come from". 

We'd like to get the Security Workgroup's perspective on the possibility of adding a light-weight extension that could shortcut the Provenance mechanism to just point to a 'source' on a per element basis (supplementing the existing Resource.meta.source) element.

We will wait to make any decision until Sonja is able to join us.

### 2. John Moehrke - 1/30/25
Security: Public

Given that the existing Provenance method is available when the full power of provenance is needed, and given that Resource.meta.source exists and is limited to the cases where a uri is sufficient, then it would seem that an extension defined very similar to meta.source, with pointers to element level Provenance would seem useful and consistent with our modeling.

Concern with meta.source at the Resource level and at this Element level is that it is not very clear interoperability to parties outside the domain that applied the uri. Thus we should be warning the reader that this may not work in cross-organizational interoperability. Might we recommend that when resources that are using .meta.source methods (both Resource and Element) are communicated beyond the domain that would understand the uri, that a Provenance record be created to enable interoperability.

Security WG: Joe Lamy / Matt Blackmon : 4-0-1

### 3. John Moehrke - 1/30/25
Security: Public

See comment. We agree with the recommendation, provided limitations are communicated clearly.

### 4. Sonja Ziegler - 1/30/25
Security: Public

I could join the Feb 10th conference call if that would work out in the agenda. Thanks.

### 5. Gino Canessa - 1/30/25
Security: Public

Hi Sonja, we are assigning this to you until you are able to join for discussion.

In discussion about this request so far, it appears that there is already an element-level Provenance solution (see: US Core Basic Provenance) as well as the Resource.meta.source element.

It feels like there may be a space for an additional lightweight extension, but it is unclear what that definition would be (e.g., string vs. uri, etc.).

We are leaning towards saying that this would be a good thing to draft and test before defining a common extension.

All of that said, please let us know when you can join and we can discuss / resolve then.

### 6. Sonja Ziegler - 1/30/25
Security: Public

We already explored the Provenance and resource-level meta attribute, which we use for larger provenance issues. This is a request for a core-level extension, as I'm sure we are not the only ones that have to map from previous versions of HL7 to FHIR for every attribute on a resource. We are already using an internal-to-UHG extension to accommodate this. The amount of overhead that would come from creating a Provenance instance for every attribute on the FHIR resource is too large. We thought we would just bring it the FHIR spec so we may all do this similarly. 

I would be happy to join the Feb 10th conference call to discuss further. Thanks.

### 7. Sonja Ziegler - 2/6/25
Security: Public

I have had a work conflict up that won't allow me to attend on the 10th. Would it be possible to add this discussion to the Feb 17th agenda? Thanks.

### 8. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/6/25
Security: Public

The 17th should be fine.

