# FHIR-53948: Clarification in Using FHIR Types in Expressions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: 2026.01.28 - WGM Wednesday Q4 FHIR-I Discussion:
Lots of feedback on changes, please write-up a new proposal.

Notes:

	deprecate getValue() function
	explain the usage of .value instead
	highlight the differences in expressions between the FHIR types and System types (with notes about implicit conversion)
	document the usage of .hasValue() and .exists() - the difference between calling each on a FHIR type and a System type.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/28/26
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: "Understanding the primitive types is critical: FHIR.string is a different type to System.String. The FHIR.string type specializes FHIR.Element, and has the properties id, extension, and also the implicit value property that is actually of type of System.String."
The above text describes an implicit value property, but does not go into any detail on that.
Update to this text:
"Understanding the primitive types is critical: FHIR.string is a different type to System.String. The FHIR.string type specializes FHIR.Element, and has the properties id, extension, and also an internal value of type of System.String which is the fhirpath primitive value. This primitive value can be accessed via the getValue()&#91;linked to function below&#93; function (added by FHIR below). However just referring to a FHIR primitive property will implicitly use the internal value (fhirpath primitive type) if a function or operator is defined as requiring a specific fhirpath primitive type. Type conversion is not otherwise done as subsequent sub-expressions may require the model's type system, such as the fhirpath type() function, or the need to access extension properties."
 
---
One interpretation of the following text:
"The evaluation engine will implicitly use the fhirpath primitive type automatically convert the value of FHIR types representing primitives to FHIRPath types"
is that this conversion is always done (and several engines initially did this).
The text should be updated to indicate that the conversion is only done where needed, and can remain in the FHIR type system until FHIRPath primitive types are required.
Without this tweak the `ofType()` and `hasValue()` functions don't work, as the property is already a fhirpath primitive.
Change the text to: (considering flowing on from the above change too...)
"When the evaluation engine needs to implicitly convert primitive types for the evaluation of a function/operation, the following mappings apply: (unless an overload for a function defines specific behavior - such as toString() or ofType)"
 
—
 
In the examples an expression of !Patient.active is used - this is NOT a valid fhirpath expression. Looks like the first set of examples in this section have an inappropriate heading. First 2 are just examples of where implicit casting occurs. Split that example block:
"The following expressions show some cases where implict conversion to the fhirpath primitive occurs:
Patient.name.given = 'Ewout' // Patient.name.given implicitly converted to fhirpath.string to perform equality (=)
Patient.name.given.extension.first().value = true // first extension's value converted to primitive, name.given is NOT implicitly converted
Patient.name.select(given | family).extension.all(value) // fhir types need to flow through the select, the 'all' function argument is the only implicit conversion
 
Since FHIR primitives can contain extensions, and in some cases do NOT contain a primitive value (such as when using data absent reason extensions), care should be taken using the exists/empty functions, and might consider using the hasValue&#91;with link&#93; function instead. 
The following expressions are not all equivalent:
Patient.active.hasValue() // is 'true' if there is a primitive value, but 'false' when only has extensions/id
Patient.active.exists()  // is 'true' if has any content (primitive and/or extensions/id)
Patient.active.empty().not() // is equivalent to active.exists(), not active.hasValue()
"
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53948
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.9.1.2
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Clarification in Using FHIR Types in Expressions
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53948

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

2026.01.28 - WGM Wednesday Q4 FHIR-I Discussion:
Lots of feedback on changes, please write-up a new proposal.

Notes:

	deprecate getValue() function
	explain the usage of .value instead
	highlight the differences in expressions between the FHIR types and System types (with notes about implicit conversion)
	document the usage of .hasValue() and .exists() - the difference between calling each on a FHIR type and a System type.

### 2. Brian Postlethwaite - 4/2/26
Security: Public

I'm collating my thoughts here (before writing up a proposed disposition)

https://hackmd.io/@brianpos/fhirpath-fhir-primitives

### 3. Brian Postlethwaite - 5/20/26
Security: Public

Also update the wording around primitive and system when referring to the different type systems.

