# FHIR-45467: UsageContext should support sets of contexts

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Consider expanding UsageContext.value&#91;x&#93; to also support canonical(ValueSet).  Also, do we want to have Reference(PlanDefinition) or canonical(PlanDefininition)?  Would need to be clear that a reference to ValueSet means 'concept found within ValueSet'.  Want Grahame Grieve's opinion on this.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/23/24
- **Created**: 5/3/24
- **Description**: I'm trying to profile Observation such that

	if Observation.code is from ValueSet Q1, Observation.valueCodeableConcept is from ValueSet A1
	if Observation.code is from ValueSet Q2, Observation.valueCodeableConcept is from ValueSet A2
	and so on.



I understand that the way to do this is to add additional bindings to  Observation.valueCodeableConcept, }}with a required binding to ValueSet A1, a {{UsageContext.code of "Observation.code", and....

And here's the problem: although I can specify a UsageContext.valueCodeableConcept for a particular code, a there doesn't seem to be a way to specify a UsageContext.value&#91;x&#93; of all codes from a ValueSet. Currently the only way to achieve this appears to be to enumerate a separate context for each value, which is both tedious and fragile.

Another common use case I can see for this is a usage context of a set of jurisdictions or languages.

Please add support for sets of context values.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45467
- **Related Page(s)**: Metadata Types
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/metadatatypes.html#UsageContext
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: UsageContext should support sets of contexts

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45467

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/23/24
Security: Public

Consider expanding UsageContext.value&#91;x&#93; to also support canonical(ValueSet).  Also, do we want to have Reference(PlanDefinition) or canonical(PlanDefininition)?  Would need to be clear that a reference to ValueSet means 'concept found within ValueSet'.  Want Grahame Grieve's opinion on this.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 5/25/24
Security: Public

Firstly, I endorse the use case - seems perfectly reasonable to me.

We already have valueQuantity/valueRange, so it's the same pattern. 

And so I agree that we have to introduce a ValueSet somehow. But I'm not sure about valueCanonical though - it's not really a value in the same sense.  

And I don't follow where PlanDefinition fits in? 

How do we do a set of references? is that a use case?

