# FHIR-55397: Definition of Obligation applicable-number extension is ambiguous

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/23/26
- **Description**: The Obligation applicable-number extension is defined as "If present, limits the obligation to the specified number of repetitions."

Depending on how you read this definition, it could be interpreted as either:

	limited to a maximum number of repetitions, or
	limited to a minimum number of repetitions.



These have very different outcomes.

The second clarifying sentence does provide some improved intent by stating "not ... ALL possible repetitions of the element, but only the specified number", but this is still not overly convincing.

The short description of "# of repetitions obligation applies to", is really no help.

In discussion about how obligations can be represented where not all occurrences need to be supported, such as this comment, the applicable-number is described as "at least n".

This is very clear in the intent and it suggested that this extension should be defined (including the short description) in this manner to remove all ambiguity.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55397
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Obligation Extension
- **Reporter**: Heath Frankel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: # On the introduction, will add a sub-section called "obligations on repeating elements"

"If obligations appear on an element that is allowed to repeat, the default expectation is that the obligation applies to all repetitions allowed by the profile.  I.e. if maxOccurs is "20" and there are obligations around display, storage, and data sharing, then the system would be expected to handle 20 for all of those purposes.

This default expectation can be overridden to establish a different "must support at least this many" on a per obligation basis using the "applicable-number" property.

If there is no upper cardinality specified (i.e. maxOccurs = "*"), the expectation is that the obligation applies to "as many as the system can technically manage", but there's an understanding that all systems will have a practical limit.  E.g. not all systems will be able to allow data entry, persistence, display, etc. of "5000 patient given names".  However, based on database design, some systems might have a practical limit of "3 patient given names".  In the absence of an explicit cardinality or applicable-number value, there can be no confident assumption on the number that will be supported.

The technical limitations of a system will often vary based on the type of obligation.  A system may be able to transmit more elements than they necessarily allow for capture, but in some cases (e.g. transmission via UPC code), the reverse might be true."

We will update the obligation element definition from:

"If present, limits the obligation to the specified number of repetitions. I.e. systems are not obligated to store/display/capture/whatever ALL possible repetitions of the element, but only the specified number. If more repetitions exist than the specified number and the system opts not to support them all, it's up to the systems which repetitions it chooses to support. Note that the applicable-number applies after any reduction in elements from applying the Obligation.filter"

to

"If present, overrides the default interpretation of 'what is the minimum number of repetitions systems must support with respect to this obligation.   If more repetitions exist than the specified number and the system opts not to support them all, it's up to the systems which repetitions it chooses to support. Note that the applicable-number applies after any reduction in elements from applying the Obligation.filter"

Will add to "comments":
"If the upper cardinality of the element is '*', that means that the upper limit is unspecified, but in practice all systems will have some limit around what is technically feasible.  These assumptions/capabilities may vary.  Specifying the applicable-number allows setting a 'floor' on what system capabilities must be.  Absent this declaration, the floor is unclear.

If the upper cardinality of the element is other than '*', there may be circumstances where, while instances are permitted to have up to maxOccurs elements present, the expectation for certain obligations (e.g. how many must be captured, how many must be displayed, etc.) could be less.  This element supports capturing that difference."

When constraining a profile element, applicable-number SHALL be less than or equal to maxOccurs and SHALL be greater than or equal to the minimum of current maxOccurs and applicable-number of the element in the parent profile, if one is present."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Definition of Obligation applicable-number extension is ambiguous
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55397

## Comments

_No comments in export._
