# FHIR-50863: What happens to the resourceDefinition url when an additional resource moves to core?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/13/25
- **Description**: In theory, once something is core, it doesn't need an resourceDefinition anymore, because it's core.  Also, the presence of resourceDefinition signals that something isn't a core resource.  However, removing this element would be a breaking change.

We don't want to declare versions of things once resources are normative (because that encourages implementers to extract rent from upgrades).  Should we simply say that resourceDefinition should appear everywhere in R6+ and simply have it version-agnostic when core?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50863
- **Related Artifact(s)**: BaseResource
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/resource.html#additional
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will document that:
* Once a resource moves into core, the {{resourceDefinition}} JSON element and {{resourceDefinition}} XML attribute are no longer needed, as the resource is a standard core FHIR resource.
* In order to support backwards compatibility, the {{resourceDefinition}} will be _allowed_ to remain present, but *SHOULD NOT* be added.
* If the {{resourceDefinition}} property is present, the version *SHALL* be correct with regards to the published core FHIR version.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: What happens to the resourceDefinition url when an additional resource moves to core?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50863

## Comments

_No comments in export._
