# FHIR-53368: Obligation: Adding negative codes

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: How is this distinct from setting the cardinality to 0..0?  SHALL populate says "must fill in a value if one is known and permissions allow sharing", so it's different from cardinality.  But "SHALL NOT populate" sounds very much the same as "this element isn't allowed to appear in instances".
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/6/25
- **Created**: 11/5/25
- **Description**: The current version of the Obligation Extension uses a value set for Obilgation.code that does not contain codes for negative use case like SHALL NOT, SHOULD NOT, MAY NOT etc.

In Austria we have the following use case related to this:

	A new FHIR IG is under development for a nationwide billing workflow solution between hospitals, the social security organizations and the ministry of health.
	All relevant institutions are connected to a central FHIR Server that stores temporarily the corresponding data.
	There are different requirements in place for each resource for the different actors for which we are using Obilgations.
	One of those requirements is that, depending on the sub-workflow, certain elements of a resource have to be filled by the FHIR Server and the must not be filled be the clients.
	So Obilgation.code for the FHIR Server actor would be "SHALL populate"
	And the Obilgation.code for the same element for the FHIR Client actors would be "SHALL NOT populate" which is currently not possible



The request is therefore to add such codes to the value set please.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53368
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Obligation Codes ValueSet

Obligation Extension
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/ValueSet-obligation.html
- **Reporter**: Reinhard Egelkraut
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Obligation: Adding negative codes
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53368

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

How is this distinct from setting the cardinality to 0..0?  SHALL populate says "must fill in a value if one is known and permissions allow sharing", so it's different from cardinality.  But "SHALL NOT populate" sounds very much the same as "this element isn't allowed to appear in instances".

### 2. Reinhard Egelkraut - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Well, the element has to appear so a cardinality of 0..0 would be wrong from the profile perspective. The difference is which one of all the actors that have access to this instance is allowed to fill this element – client actors must not fill it (SHALL NOT populate) the server actor has to fill it (SHALL populate)

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

The difference is whether it affects instance validity.  SHALL populate has no impact on how instances validate.  SHALL NOT populate does - and as such, doesn't belong as an obligation.  If you have different constraints for different systems, you MUST have distinct profiles.  Obligations don't let you vary instance constraints.

### 4. Reinhard Egelkraut - 11/7/25
Security: Public

Concerning „Obligations don't let you vary instance constraints.” – I wasn’t aware of that till now.
However, I am not so sure if the approach “If you have different constraints for different systems, you MUST have distinct profiles.” would work all the time.

In our use case, we have a resource instance that can be viewed and updated by multiple actors. For some elements of that resource we have the restriction that client actors must not fill it (SHALL NOT populate) the server actor has to fill it (SHALL populate). If we would solve this requirement with cardinalities (0..0 for SHALL NOT and 1..1 for SHALL) and the corresponding distinct profiles for that resource, we would end up with a contradiction that wouldn’t validate either, wouldn’t we? 
Because, the resource instance would have to apply to both profiles and would also declare this in its Meta.profile. Which results in the fact that the instance should be compliant to a profile that says element xy has a cardinality of 0..0 and at the same time to another profile that says the same element xy has a cardinality of 1..1, resulting in multiple validation erros.
(Having two separate resource instances one for each actor profile is definitely not the desired outcome for the IG and shall be avoided)

So the approach in our IG simply was to have:

	One profile for the resource and a cadinality for element xy of 0..1
	At least two ActorDefinitions – one for the clients and one for the server
	An Obilgation for the client actors that says SHALL NOT populate element xy
	An Obilgation for the server actor that says SHALL populate element xy



But if that doesn’t work respectively is not allowed, what would be the alternative?

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/17/25
Security: Public

If an instance is valid against a profile, then it's valid against the profile.  However, context-specific additional bindings create the same problem.

However, obligations never impact validation.  They can impact testing (where you're looking at system behavior), but they never impact whether an instance is valid or not.  (Just as mustSupport never impact instance validity.)

Right now, we don't have a mechanism to support context-specific constraints other than for bindings.  We could look at adding 'context' to constraints, which would provide such a mechanism.  However, this would be a significant change.

### 6. Gabriel Leonhartsberger - 11/18/25
Security: Public

Does a SHALL:populate obligation on a mandatory element with a required binding make sense?

E.g. https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-ips/en/StructureDefinition-Composition-uv-ips.html

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/18/25
Security: Public

It can.  If the required binding includes an 'unknown' a system could hard-code with that code, which would satisfy the cardinality and binding, but would not satisfy the obligation.

### 8. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/21/26
Security: Public

Note that the notion of NOT obligations is still reasonable for lots of other obligation types: SHALLNOT:display, SHALLNOT:persist, etc.  And even SHOULDNOT:populate isn't a problem.  It's only SHALLNOT:populate (and populate-if-known, etc.) that are problematic.

