# FHIR-46789: Document signature

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Corey Spears
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We will hold off on discussion until John Moehrke is available to join us in FHIR-I.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/2/24
- **Created**: 8/28/24
- **Description**: There is discussion of signature that is problematic and incomplete:
Document Bundles may be signed using digital signatures following the rules laid out in the digital signatures page. The signature SHOULD be provided by a listed attester of the document and the signature SHOULD contain a KeyInfo element   that contains a KeyName element whose value is a URI that matches the fullUri for the matching attester resource.
The statement about keyInfo is unnecessary as it is replicating what is said in the digital signature section, where both xml and json are addressed.

Not clear what the statement about fullUri is refering to.  The fullUri may not be known at the time the signature is calculated.

Not clear if this is recommending Bundle.signature; or something else. I think it would be good to define this better.

There have been some discussion of a need for narrative only signature, following the guidance in Document Presentation. Would be good to get this formally defined too.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46789
- **Related Page(s)**: Documents
- **Related Section(s)**: Document Structure
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/documents.html
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will remove the sentence "The signature SHOULD be provided by a listed attester of the document and the signature SHOULD contain a KeyInfo element   that contains a KeyName element whose value is a URI that matches the fullUri for the matching attester resource."

Will replace "Document Bundles may be signed using digital signatures following the rules laid out in the [digital signatures|https://build.fhir.org/signatures.html] page."

with

"If there is a need to have a digital signature on a Document Bundle, this may be accomplished using the {{Bundle.signature}} element following the rules laid out in the [digital signatures|https://build.fhir.org/signatures.html] page."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Document signature
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46789

## Comments

### 1. Corey Spears - 12/2/24
Security: Public

We will hold off on discussion until John Moehrke is available to join us in FHIR-I.

