# FHIR-50619: SubscriptionTopic + Create/Delete Interactions Section Examples Are Ambiguous

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/10/25
- **Created**: 5/2/25
- **Description**: The Trigger Interaction: Create section has this line:

In order to filter correctly, a combination of resultForCreate and requireBoth must be specified. For example, setting both resultForCreate and requireBoth to true or false will result in criteria that can be tested against all interactions with expected behavior.

 

The Trigger Interaction:Update section has a similar note:

In order to filter correctly, a combination of resultForDelete and requireBoth must be specified. For example, setting both resultForDelete and requireBoth to true or false will result in criteria that can be tested against all interactions with expected behavior.

 

Is the "true or false" part supposed to be "true and false, respectively" (resultForCreate/Delete = true, requireBoth = false)?

 

For it to be a useful constraint (that evaluates on creates/updates/deletes in the same way), won't we need requireBoth = true? (and resultForCreate/Delete can drive should those be included or not)?

 

Lastly - should the values for resultForDelete/Create be updated to test-passes/test-fails with the new binding?
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50619
- **Reporter**: Weiyu Zhang
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: SubscriptionTopic + Create/Delete Interactions Section Examples Are Ambiguous

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50619

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

