# FHIR-47371: SubscriptionTopic - filter timing should not block server

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: This section specifies rules on how a server should evaluate whether notifications are the be send. It states that certain checks need to be done before or after the interaction is completed. Notifications can include other resources besides those that trigger the notification (include and revinclude fields).

What is the underlying assumption related to timing on subscriptions? 

Is it required to check all subscriptions before the state of the server changes?

Is it required that the additional resources (include/revinclude) represent the state they have at the moment the interaction starts (this would effectively block the server until the subscriptions have been checked)?

I suggest that we add further text on the expectation we have on implementations related to these timing topics. My preference would be that such strict timing relationships are not required.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47371
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SubscriptionTopic
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.14.6.7.5
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptiontopic.html#filters-timing
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: SubscriptionTopic - filter timing should not block server

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47371

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

