# FHIR-45252: Expectations for non Reference references

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Additional notes:

	the :identifier modifier should likely allow for references targeting canonicals
	there should be a note in include and revInclude about listing allowed parameters in CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchInclude and .revInclude.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/9/24
- **Created**: 4/8/24
- **Description**: Per discussion on Zulip, I am requesting some changes in search around references, chanining, includes, and revIncludes.

	In reference
	
		Change
Chaining is not supported when using the :identifier modifier, nor are chaining, includes or reverse includes supported for reference search parameters that target elements without a reference element. For example, a search parameter that targets an element with the Reference FHIR type can be chained through, but a search parameter that targets a canonical element cannot.
to
Chaining is not defined when using the :identifier modifier, nor are chaining, includes, or reverse includes defined for reference search parameters that target elements without an explicit reference, though servers MAY choose to implement any or all of them. For more information, see Chaining (chained parameters).
	
	




	In Chaining (chained parameters)
	
		change:
Note that chaining is only allowed for reference search parameters that target Reference FHIR type elements.
to
Note that chaining is only defined for reference type search parameters. Server implementers have discretion about additional requirements in content (e.g., if external references are resolved, if canonical resolution is performed, etc.).
	
	




	Add example of chaining through a canonical reference (QuestionnaireResponse into Questionnaire).




	Change the two notes currently in Chaining (chained parameters) to be bullet points since we are adding more notes.




	Add additional notes:
	
		It is implementer discretion whether a server will follow external references. If a reference cannot be resolved, the search test is considered a match failure and should not be included in results.
		
			A best practice is to include this type of failure as an item in the OperationOutcome
		
		
		If attempting to chain through references that are not of the Reference FHIR type (e.g., canonical or uri), it is possible that the resolved content does not match the expected content type. If a resolved resource does not match the expected type, it should be considered a match failure.
		When resolving references through canonical references, a server is expected to perform resolution as a Canonical Identifier. Server implementers are allowed to impose additional restrictions on canonicals resolved in this way (e.g., only canonicals pre-loaded into a server, from specific packages, etc.).
	
	




	Expand the definition of the &#91;type&#93; modifier (see Search: Modifer: type)
	
		Change "Note that the modifier cannot be used with a reference to a resource found on another server..." to "Note that servers can impose restrictions on use of the &#91;type&#93; modifier to resources based on instance contents. For example, references with explicit references, references with explicit type information, local (relative) references, including or excluding canonical references, etc.."
	
	




	Add a new section to Including Referenced Resources after External References.
	
		Section for Canonical References
		Add text describing canonical resolution and expectations - in line with described above. Note that servers are allowed to perform this resolution or not.
		Add example showing canonical resolution (QuestionnaireResponse referencing Questionnaire.)
	
	




	Fix typo: Section heading Canonical Identifiers appears twice (3.2.1.6.1.3 and 3.2.1.6.1.4). The first should be "Resource Identifiers".




	Ensure there is a note in include and revInclude about listing allowed parameters in CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchInclude and .revInclude.  Specifically, that this is how a server advertises support for inclusions and that putting a search parameter there indicates some level of support (e.g., do not list a canonical element there if you will not perform canonical resolution).
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45252
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Make changes as proposed.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Expectations for non Reference references
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45252

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 4/9/24
Security: Public

Additional notes:

	the :identifier modifier should likely allow for references targeting canonicals
	there should be a note in include and revInclude about listing allowed parameters in CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.searchInclude and .revInclude.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 4/15/24
Security: Public

:identifier uses the identifier elements within a reference structure so does not need to be changed.  Added the other note to the description during triage.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

