# FHIR-50618: Misc Minor Typos in SubscriptionTopic

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/2/25
- **Description**: Section 2.14.6.3:

1) Typo for servers

2) Recommend adjusting the last sentence to be "separate triggers and filters or combine them as desired" - not sure if combine the tests means combining triggers + filters implementation, as only filters are referred to as tests earlier on

 

 

Current Text:

This logical separation of triggers and filters exists to limit the complexity of topics. However, this specification does not place any architectural requirements on severs regarding the separation of triggers and filters. An implementation is free to separate the two portions or combine the tests as desired.

 



Section 2.14.6.4

"Resource Interactions" are inconsistently capitalized

 

Current Text: 

Subscription Topics based on Resource Interactions are simple to describe - definitions include the resource type (e.g., Patient, Encounter) and the interaction of interest (e.g., create, delete).

Subscription Topics for resource interactions are defined using the SubscriptionTopic.trigger.resource and SubscriptionTopic.trigger.supportedInteraction elements.



Section 2.14.6.7.2

I think this is just missing capitalization? (This is referring to the same search parameter name, but defined for different resources with different meaning right?)

 

Current Text:

Filters MAY have external definitions. For example, Search Parameters defined in the FHIR Specifications have canonical URLs in the format of http://hl7.org/fhir/SearchParameter/[id] (see Search Parameter Registry). with Search Parameters, it is possible that two externally-defined filters share the same "short" name. In these cases, the URI contained in the filterDefinition element is used to link a context-local name for the parameter (filterParameter) to the complete definition.
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-50618
- **Reporter**: Weiyu Zhang
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Misc Minor Typos in SubscriptionTopic

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50618

## Comments

_No comments in export._
