# FHIR-48485: Allow Bundle.total for all bundle types.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 10/2/24
- **Description**: The bdl-1 constraint limits prevents the use of Bundle.total for Bundles that aren't searchset or history.   This seems like an unnecessary constraint.

 

We should remove that constraint.  Alternatively, we should explain in the description of the constraint (or elsewhere) why we think it is important that Bundle.total must not be used in other contexts.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48485
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/bundle
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will update the short for 'total' to "Total matches across all pages".

The constraint is because those are the only two Bundle types where paging is supported and there's a need to know the size of the result set beyond what's in the current instance.  There's no need to convey the total count of resources within a document, collection, batch, etc. because all entries are confined to a single instance.  We don't want a redundant element telling you the count of entries in a Bundle because that's then just something for implementers to have to cross-check and potentially get wrong.  A receiver can always count the entries.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Allow Bundle.total for all bundle types.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48485

## Comments

_No comments in export._
