# FHIR-53959: Additional Functions cleanup

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: Move `getValue` to be next to `hasValue()`
	
The `toString()` function should be noted that this IS a standard FHIRPath function, and the documentation here is only clarifying how the function will behave with fhir types. Specifically it should explicitly state that if there is no value, only extensions, and/or id then it will return an empty collection. (FHIR-53958 Create Function Overloads section) - e.g. if there is a data absent reason extension. Could be mentioned in the examples when they are added for this function. Be explicit that a fhir primitive that has no value, and extensions only returns an empty result/collection.
	`resolve()` should also mention that the reference could resolve from a contained resource as with normal resource references.
    - Should it also resolve canonical resource references? This should be mentioned here, and also that they could be versioned.
	`resolve()` should include a note that if a resource is not resolved due to permissions, this is no different to not finding the resource (is this needed?)
	`hasValue()` - include additional text to indicate that if the item is a FHIRPath primitive, then it can also return true if it has a value (which is always).
    - also note that there is no `value` property exposed, though you can use `getValue()` instead - the `value` property is hidden/internal.
	
The `getValue()` function should return the value itself when evaluated on a fhirpath primitive too.
	`ofType` erroneously indicates that markdown is not a subclass of string. A better example would be canonical.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53959
- **Related Issues**: FHIR-53811: Clarify hasValue() and getValue(), FHIR-53948: Clarification in Using FHIR Types in Expressions, FHIR-54084: FHIRpath resolve() should include an example on its use on uri's.
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.9.1.5
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Additional Functions cleanup
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53959

## Comments

_No comments in export._
