# FHIR-43595: enhance registry table to differentiate between substantive and mere metadata changes to aid reviewers

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: &gt; It turns out that the places flagged as "metadata changes" also included changes to definitions as part of a boiler-plate update to the definition of Extension.value.

the code is clear that changes to definitions don't get called 'changes to metadata'. So whatever happened was a bug I'd have to investigate. And I can't find any current case to investigate with
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/17/25
- **Created**: 1/10/24
- **Description**: Separating extensions from the content and context in which they're used practically invites community ignorance of changes to those extensions.  I understand the practical publication need.

Ans that why, I appreciate the thoughtfulness and care that's gone into the Update Policy/Process, as well and the consideration of reviewers resulting in some of the columns in the registry table (wg, changed or not, resource). 

While reviewing this ballot, many of the extensions marked changed, that are also perhaps relevant to my FHIR implementation are identified as "The resource metadata has changed". Practically, I think that most implementers don't need to care when only resource metadata has changed. Please consider indicated in the registry table itself, if a change is substantive or not.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43595
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extensions/5.1.0-ballot/extension-registry.html
- **Reporter**: Isaac Vetter
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: It turns out that the places flagged as "metadata changes" also included changes to definitions as part of a boiler-plate update to the definition of Extension.value.  As such, these *do* need to be highlighted.  But we agree that labeling something as "metadata change" when the definition has changed is misleading.

Grahame will see if he can disambiguate the wording so that it's clear when definitions have changed as opposed to pure metadata stuff (like who owns the extension).  We will also look at changing the icon if only metadata has changed.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: enhance registry table to differentiate between substantive and mere metadata changes to aid reviewers
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43595

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 7/17/25
Security: Public

&gt; It turns out that the places flagged as "metadata changes" also included changes to definitions as part of a boiler-plate update to the definition of Extension.value.

the code is clear that changes to definitions don't get called 'changes to metadata'. So whatever happened was a bug I'd have to investigate. And I can't find any current case to investigate with

