# FHIR-47046: Version Management Policy readability improvement

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3192
- **Assignee**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Comments**: 10/9/24
- **Created**: 9/5/24
- **Description**: The three parragraphs below start with "Note". It would improve clarity by combining them under one single "Notes" section.

Note that this same status will arise as a matter of process when new elements are introduced into normative resources in future versions - they will undergo a period of trial use as appropriate.

Note: it is also possible that some resources in the future will be labeled as 'trial use', but contain some elements labeled as 'normative'. There is no resource like this in this specification, though all Trial Use resources contain normative content from Resource and DomainResource, and the Datatypes.

Notes:

	The above statuses can apply to both the standard overall as well as to individual components of the FHIR specification
	All pages in the specification identify their status explicitly. A few pages are Table of contents or other kinds of navigational pages, and are Informative
	Some content is labeled with the status "External", which means that the content is maintained in another standard, and the status must be found by consulting that other standard. In this case, the Maturity Model does not apply
	When a shared SearchParameter is marked as normative and is used on a non-normative resource, the SearchParameter definition is considered to be normative and its definition is subject to normative inter-version compatibility rules. However, its use (and path expression) with respect to any trial-use or informative resources it applies to is still considered to be trial-use and subject to change as the associated trial-use resource(s) evolve. Non-normative resources that use the search parameter could be dropped and new resources sharing the search parameter can be added.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47046
- **Related Page(s)**: Change Management & Versioning (versions/compatibility)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.7.0.1
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/versions.html
- **Reporter**: IgnacioJauregui
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Version Management Policy readability improvement
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47046

## Comments

### 1. Bas van den Heuvel - 10/9/24
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3192

