# FHIR-48338: Update narrative for id/idref

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: idref is not a valid element on span (and most other elements) in our schemas.  There's also no expectation that the id context of a Bundle will take into account the contents of the resources it's referencing.  It's perfectly valid for a Composition resource to have a section with id #1 and for a Bundle to have an entry that points to resource with id '1'.  If you want to point from Composition to something that's not inside the Composition, you must prefix with the resource.  E.g. "Patient/1".  And that's not a valid syntax for idref, because '/' can't appear in the 'ID' or 'IDREF' type.  IDREF is defined as a pointer to an element within the 'document', and for us, the document is the resource ('Composition' in this case).
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/20/25
- **Created**: 9/21/24
- **Description**: As discussed at FHIR Connectathon 37 and in this thread (https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/207835-IPS/topic/Referencing.20from.20IPS.20narrative.20to.20data), there is a desire to clarify that it is acceptable behvaior for an idref in a Composition.text or Composition.section.text to reference a resource in a document Bundle with an id. While sub-entry id references may not be acceptable, resource ids within a Bundle should generally be unique and would allow reference from the Composition resource text/section.text
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48338
- **Related Page(s)**: Narrative
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot2/narrative.html#internal
- **Reporter**: John D'Amore
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Update narrative for id/idref

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48338

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

idref is not a valid element on span (and most other elements) in our schemas.  There's also no expectation that the id context of a Bundle will take into account the contents of the resources it's referencing.  It's perfectly valid for a Composition resource to have a section with id #1 and for a Bundle to have an entry that points to resource with id '1'.  If you want to point from Composition to something that's not inside the Composition, you must prefix with the resource.  E.g. "Patient/1".  And that's not a valid syntax for idref, because '/' can't appear in the 'ID' or 'IDREF' type.  IDREF is defined as a pointer to an element within the 'document', and for us, the document is the resource ('Composition' in this case).

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/27/25
Security: Public

Grahame will look at how to rewrite the relevant section of the Composition spec to address the underlying requirement given the technical issues identified in the earlier comment.

