# FHIR-50391: Clarifications of the use of must-support and obligations in repeating elements

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: We need to add obligations to the first bullet and remove them from the second bullet.  Obligations specified on the slicer must apply to all slices, just as bindings, maxLength, etc. do.  It's possible that a slice might specify additional or tighter obligations, but it can't have loser obligations.  There's not 'historical confusion' that applies here, nor any use-case that's met by not strictly requiring obligations on the slicer to apply to all slices.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/25/25
- **Created**: 4/25/25
- **Description**: This is a cumulative wrap of a long thread on Zulip: Slices not inheriting preferred bindings from root

I propose that what we should do about this is:

1. add a note to &#91;the slicing section on ElementDefinition&#93;(https://build.fhir.org/elementdefinition.html#slicing) that presently says:

&gt; The first entry (the one having the `slicing` information) is understood to be the set of constraints that apply to all slices and entries, whether they have a defined slice or not

the new note should say:


	the constraints that apply across all slices and entries of the element are: max, type (code, profile, targetProfile, aggregation and versioning), fixed&#91;x&#93;, pattern&#91;x&#93;, minValue&#91;x&#93;, maxValue&#91;x&#93;, maxLength, constraints, required and extensible bindings (including additional bindings), mustHaveValue, and valueAlternatives
	mustSupport and obligations that do not specify other wise can not be assumed to apply to all slices and entries. This is for legacy reasons - the only way to determine the applicability of mustSupport and unspecified obligations is to read the applicable documentation, and in the absence of this, consult the relevant implementation community (see further discussion on the implementation obligations page). Note that a slice labelled as must-support can't be considered to have no need to support just because the slicer element is not labelled as must-support - the documentation (if available) must be consulted.



2. On the implementation obligations page, we should add a new paragraph in the Must Support section that says:

"When a repeating element is labelled as 'must-support', it can be ambiguous whether the intent is that at least one of the repeating elements must be supported, or whether every element must be supported. The must support documentation SHOULD explicitly discuss this issue, and make the expectations in such cases clear to the implementers. In the absence of such documentation, implementer cannot be sure what the meaning of the specification is, though the community may issue new advice to clarify the meaning."

3. Add a boolean sub-extension to the obligation extension clarifying whether the obligation should be understood as applying to the 'set' of elements, or to individual elements, and make clear which particular obligations may be interpreted as applying to the set rather than the individual items (a property on the code system?). Document that the filter sub-extension is not used when the obligation is considered to apply to the entire set. Document the issues involved in set vs individual in the Obligation section of the implementation obligations page. Note: see FHIR-50390 for a competing proposal - I have retained this here so that if 50390 doesn't get up, this issue doesn't get lost.

4. Add  a sentence to the sentence "When a child element is defined as Must Support and the parent element isn't, a system must support the child if it support the parent, but there's no expectation that the system must support the parent." at https://build.fhir.org/profiling.html#obligations that says: "Implementers should read the documentation on the Implementation Obligations Page around the applicability of mustSupport and obligations to elements with a max cardinality greater than one, and to slices of a repeating element".

5. update the publisher so that if it sees  must-support on an repeating element, it will hint the author that this should be clarified in the must-support documentation, and if it sees a mix of must-support values on slicer and slices, this will become warning. Same for obligations that don't make clear whether they apply to the set or the individual elements. I will make an IG parameter so authors can advise the validator that they do, in fact, document this for must-support
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50391
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureDefinition
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarifications of the use of must-support and obligations in repeating elements
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50391

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/25/25
Security: Public

We need to add obligations to the first bullet and remove them from the second bullet.  Obligations specified on the slicer must apply to all slices, just as bindings, maxLength, etc. do.  It's possible that a slice might specify additional or tighter obligations, but it can't have loser obligations.  There's not 'historical confusion' that applies here, nor any use-case that's met by not strictly requiring obligations on the slicer to apply to all slices.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 4/25/25
Security: Public

Note that if 50390 is adopted, the language in bullet 2 needs to change

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/25/25
Security: Public

For #4, we should also say "the slicing element for a set of slices is NOT considered a parent for these purposes, however some historical guides may have treated it as such".

### 4. Grahame Grieve - 4/25/25
Security: Public

Also add 

	The constraints on the slicer apply whether or not they are explicitly rendered as constraints on the slicer in the snapshot (they may not be displayed due to inheritance constraints on slices when generating the snapshot; if profile authors wish for them to be displayed in the snapshot, they might have to define them explicitly on the slices as well)

