# FHIR-20178: Terminology constraints for 'code' resources aren't quite right

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Robert Hausam
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Is this still an issue?  If so, can you provide further explanation, on what you mean by "'code' resource" and otherwise?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/23/20
- **Created**: 1/17/19
- **Description**: We're pointing to a specific version of the value set (which is good).  However the value set isn't locked to a specific version of the code system.  When you link to a specific version of a value set, you're tied to the definition, not the expansion.  That means that if in the future a new code is added to the system, it will be considered a member of the value set.  And that's not what we want.  What should actually happen is that the value set version should tie to a specific code system version. That also means that the value set shouldn't be immutable - as we'll need to change the version of the code system the value set is locked to.
- **Grouping**: [FHIR-Tools-Core]
- **Issue Type**: Technical Correction
- **Key**: FHIR-20178
- **Related Page(s)**: Terminologies - Valuesets
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - No Change
- **Summary**: Terminology constraints for 'code' resources aren't quite right
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-20178

## Comments

### 1. Robert Hausam - 1/23/20
Security: Public

Is this still an issue?  If so, can you provide further explanation, on what you mean by "'code' resource" and otherwise?

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/24/20
Security: Public

An example is this one: https://build.fhir.org/valueset-FHIR-version.xml.html

The binding is not to a specific version of the code system.  However, in practice, it should be.  That's because the binding is for a 'code' resource and the set of version codes allowed for an STU3 implementation or an R4 implementation is never allowed to change.  It's locked in the schema.  (As are all 'code' value sets.) 

I.e. the reference should be to the specific code system release, not the implicit "current version of the code system" that it is now.  And the value set shouldn't be immutable because each official release we should be updating the code system version to be the 'then-current' one.

This is a problem for all of the value sets that are bound to 'code' elements that are intensionally defined.

### 3. Carmela A. Couderc - 8/10/21
Security: Public

Lloyd McKenzie Please clarify the change you are requesting - are you asking for an enhancement to binding strength?

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/10/21
Security: Public

This is a tooling issue.  When we're spitting out value sets that are used in required bindings for 'code' elements, we want those codes to be frozen for a single release.  As an example, the value set for http://hl7.org/fhir/administrative-gender in R4 currently says:

&lt;system value="http://hl7.org/fhir/administrative-gender"/&gt;

It should say:

&lt;system value="http://hl7.org/fhir/administrative-gender|4.0.1"/&gt;

(i.e. only the codes that were present in R4 and if new codes get added to administrative-gender in a future release, they're not allowed for use in R4-conformant implementations.)

It looks like the problem of the value sets being marked as 'immutable' has already been fixed, so the only issue is having the value sets ensure that all code system references are version-specific.

 

There's no need for any new types of binding strength.

### 5. Carmela A. Couderc - 8/10/21
Security: Public

Thanks Lloyd McKenzie  Clearly not a Vocab issue. Please let me know which workgroup should have the honor of resolving this ticket.

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/10/21
Security: Public

Moving to FHIR-I as it's a tooling issue.

