# FHIR-47284: Subscriptions - improve FHIRcast related text

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/10/24
- **Description**: The main different is that FHIRcast is focusing on context synchronization (i.e. what is current Patient/Encounter/,,,)  does not primarily targets signaling content changes.

Possible new text:

FHIRcast is a framework for context synchronization across applications. FHIRcast and Subscription are both conceptually based W3 WebSub , and while the mechanics of two projects look similar, they are fundamentally different projects used to address different use cases. In particular:
• FHIRcast is designed to be used to synchronize the current context (Patient/Encounter/...) between multiple applications typically with the same user and on the same device
Subscriptions are designed to be used by multiple distinct systems, often outside of a user workflow
• FHIRcast optimizes on speed of delivery
It use single event notifications to ensure rapid delivery.
Subscriptions allow servers to batch multiple notifications in high-frequency scenarios
• FHIRcast is designed around short-lived sessions
Subscriptions are intended to be long-lived resources
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47284
- **Related Page(s)**: Subscriptions Framework
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.9.2.1
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: | FHIRcast is a framework for context synchronization across applications. FHIRcast and Subscription are both conceptually based W3 WebSub , and while the mechanics of two projects look similar, they are fundamentally different specificaions used to address different use cases. In particular:
* FHIRcast is designed to be used to synchronize the current context (Patient/Encounter/...) between multiple applications, typically with the same user and on the same device.
  Subscriptions are designed to be used by multiple distinct systems, often outside of a user workflow.
* FHIRcast sends only single-event notifications.
  Subscriptions allow servers to batch multiple notifications in high-frequency scenarios.
* FHIRcast is designed around short-lived sessions.
  Subscriptions are intended to be long-lived resources.
* FHIRcast broadcasts the same notification to multiple subscribers concurrently
  Subscriptions can send the same event to multiple subscribers concurrently, but the contents are specific to each client.
* FHIRcast is intended for real-time use and optimizes for speed of delivery (e.g., only single event notifications)
  Subscriptions is intended for low-coupling interchange and optimizes for breadth of implementation (e.g., allows batch notifications)
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Subscriptions - improve FHIRcast related text
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47284

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

