# FHIR-55418: Event.partOf as a reference to same type

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: That would normally be captured as two distinct dispense events (infulfillment of the same order).  I'm not aware of existing systems that would create three distinct events in that case, they'd normally only create two - one for each brand dispensed.  Do you have evidence of widespread support by systems for a third grouping event instance?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/25/26
- **Created**: 1/25/26
- **Description**: Same way as MedicationAdministration can be used to represent intervals of administration rates and products in an overall continuous administration, this should be used in other resources - but the pattern only points at partOf referencing different types
Example: MedicationDispense.partOf could support "patient was requested 60 units, is taking a box of 30 brand A and box of 30 brand B (because stock)".
This is high priority as it will impact other changes like MedicationDispense
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55418
- **Reporter**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Event.partOf as a reference to same type

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55418

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/25/26
Security: Public

That would normally be captured as two distinct dispense events (infulfillment of the same order).  I'm not aware of existing systems that would create three distinct events in that case, they'd normally only create two - one for each brand dispensed.  Do you have evidence of widespread support by systems for a third grouping event instance?

### 2. Jose Costa-Teixeira - 1/25/26
Security: Public

Agree, this would be ("normally") in 2 dispenses. Perhaps another scenario, like the one used for administration and most likely not implemented with 2 dispenses, is to dispense 2 boxes with different lot or batch numbers. Batch is in the Medication itself, so those would need to be 2 different resources?

