# FHIR-42983: Clarify the definition of FHIRPath.slice

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Apply the specified profile to the resource containing the context element.  The 'slice()' operation will filter the current collection of elements to only those that would have been matched against a slice with that name when applying the profile.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/23/23
- **Created**: 10/22/23
- **Description**: The definition of the .slice function is unclear about how the .slice function works. See .slice(). 

We should clarify:

	that the function filters the current of list of elements and returns only those that are part of the named slice
	Give the example Patient.telecom.slice(%profile, 'phone').all(use.exists()) for a slice named 'phone' on Patient.telecom
	Be specific that if you're writing a constraint in a profile, you can use the context variable %profile to refer to the profile that defines the constraint
	Note that it doesn't matter whether the name of the slice is unique in the profile, since there's always a specific element in context, which must have uniquely named slices 
	Note that the profile is required because a constraint might want to talk about the slices defined in an ancestor profile 
	Note that not all fhirpath engines are in a position to implement slice() - depends on a good solid validation engine to support it
- **Grouping**: [Applied]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-42983
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Reporter**: Grahame Grieve
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will change from:

"Returns the given slice as defined in the given structure definition. The structure argument is a uri that resolves to the structure definition, and the name must be the name of a slice within that structure definition. If the structure cannot be resolved, or the name of the slice within the resolved structure is not present, or those parameters are empty, and empty value is returned.

For every element in the input collection, if the resolved slice is present on the element, it will be returned. If the slice does not match any element in the input collection, or if the input collection is empty, the result is an empty collection ({{{}{ }{}}})."

to

"Apply the profile specified as the first argument to the resource containing the context element(s).  The 'slice()' operation will filter the current collection of elements to only those that would have been matched against a slice with the name specified in the second argument when applying the profile.

The profile can be a canonical URI, or can be the special variable '%profile' which refers to the profile in which the ElementDefinition.constraint containing the FHIRPath is defined.  (This variable can only be used for FHIRPath appearing in constraints.)

If the StructureDefinition referenced by the canonical URI cannot be resolved, or the name of the slice within the resolved structure is not present, or those parameters are empty, the operation returns an empty value.

If the StructureDefinition and name exist, but there are no matches, an empty collection will be returned.

For example, this is a FHIRPath that could appear in a profile on Patient:

`Patient.telecom.slice(%profile, 'homephone').count()+Patient.telecom.slice(%profile, 'homeemail').count()>1`

 

This would say that, after validating the instance against the current profile, there must be more than one Patient.telecom element matching either the 'homephone' slice or the 'homeemail' slice rules, as defined in that profile.

 

NOTE: not all FHIRPath engines are in a position to implement slice() as implementation requires implementation of a FHIR validation engine, which is not a small undertaking."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify the definition of FHIRPath.slice
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-42983

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 10/23/23
Security: Public

Apply the specified profile to the resource containing the context element.  The 'slice()' operation will filter the current collection of elements to only those that would have been matched against a slice with that name when applying the profile.

