# FHIR-50613: Can a SubscriptionTopic.trigger Have queryCriteria, fhirPathCriteria, and event Populated at the Same Time?

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Created**: 5/2/25
- **Description**: The narrative content for SubscriptionTopic + relevant Topic-Based Subscription pages clearly define how to convey trigger details via queryCriteria, fhirPathCriteria, or event (along with resource + optionally supportedInteraction). (kudos!)

 

However, I'm not really sure what it means to have more than one of the three criteria (queryCriteria/fhirPathCriteria/event) populated. Is it an AND relationship or an OR relationship? It sounds odd for criteria to be conveyed via three different ways at the same time - does that mean they're translations of each other?

 

If not/if only one of queryCriteria/fhirPathCriteria/event is supposed to be used at a time - consider adding a constraint to only allow one of the three to be populated.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50613
- **Related Artifact(s)**: SubscriptionTopic
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.14.4
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscriptiontopic.html
- **Reporter**: Weiyu Zhang
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will add a clarification indicating that the relationship is an inclusive or, however they must all express the same behavior.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Can a SubscriptionTopic.trigger Have queryCriteria, fhirPathCriteria, and event Populated at the Same Time?
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50613

## Comments

_No comments in export._
