# FHIR-41271: Clarify whether receiver should throw away MessageHeader

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Nick Radov
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Another option may be to use Provenance resources instead of Task for some use cases.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/13/23
- **Created**: 5/10/23
- **Description**: Is the MessageHeader resource intended to be transient in messaging workflow? That seems to be implicitly understood in some quarters but isn't explicitly stated in this module so we would appreciate clarification on that point. SHOULD a message receiver throw away the MessageHeader after processing the message?

I discussed FHIR-40264 with Lloyd McKenzie and he thinks that a reason to remove certain elements from MessageHeader is that resource type is transient. The receiver may throw it away after processing the message and isn't expected to persist it. Thus any metadata which does need to be persisted by the receiver should be moved into separate Task resources. If we do go that route then we would at least need more detailed documentation and examples showing how to use Task for that case. There may also be differences between persisting message metadata for auditing and reporting purposes versus for clinical care.

We might want a joint discussion between FHIR-I and InM before making a decision on this issue since FHIR-I owns the Messaging module and InM owns the MessageHeader resource type. Depending on the outcome of this issue a separate issue might be needed for MessageHeader.

Tagging Ulrike Merrick in case she wants to add additional comments.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-41271
- **Related Artifact(s)**: MessageHeader
- **Related Page(s)**: Messaging
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.5
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/messaging.html
- **Reporter**: Nick Radov
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add the following language to the 'messaging' page as a sub-section above "Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API":

"MessageHeader and REST"

"The MessageHeader is important and necessary when interpreting the contents of a message - they cannot be understood without it. However once resources are removed from the message bundle, and processed into some other context (e.g. PUT/POST to a RESTful API, or deconstructed into a database, or transferred into any other context), the content of the MessageHeader SHALL not be relevant for interpreting the contents of the resource. To be explicit, applications using a RESTful API are not required to look for past MessageHeader resources that relate to a resource in order to understand the resource correctly.

::Implementation Note

Information that will need to be available to understand the resources that remain after processing a message should be conveyed using other resources - e.g. Task, Composition, etc."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify whether receiver should throw away MessageHeader
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-41271

## Comments

### 1. Nick Radov - 6/13/23
Security: Public

Another option may be to use Provenance resources instead of Task for some use cases.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/26/23
Security: Public

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179280-fhir.2Finfrastructure-wg/topic/Statement.20about.20interpreting.20Message.20Content

### 3. Nick Radov - 6/26/23
Security: Public

Anthony Julian and Isaac Vetter I think this resolution should remove the blocker for the linked issues so I recommend you add those back to a future InM conference call agenda. I'm not sure whether I will be able to attend future calls but I wanted to make sure this was cleared before I potentially step away.

### 4. Anthony Julian - 3/6/25
Security: Public

Applied

