# FHIR-44354: Expand context of use target to allow MedicationStatement

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: This extension has been around for quite some time and we believe is in production use in some places, which means renaming is no longer very practical.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/29/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Unclear why the extension is categorized as a workflow/events-based extension. Suggest changing the name to something other than workflow if it wouldn't be expected to inform an event state or action directly. The same might be said about workflow-barrier though there may be more of a case for barrier to be consumed for event logic somehow.

(Comment 33 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44354
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extensions/5.1.0-ballot/StructureDefinition-workflow-protectiveFactor.html
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Expand context of use target to allow MedicationStatement
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44354

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/29/24
Security: Public

This extension has been around for quite some time and we believe is in production use in some places, which means renaming is no longer very practical.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/29/24
Security: Public

Assigning to Pharmacy to decide whether this extension is something that makes sense to have for an event summary resource.  Once you have a recommendation, please assign back to FHIR-I to resolve.

### 3. Jean Duteau - 5/20/24
Security: Public

Pharmacy does not understand the use case for including this on MedicationStatement.  We can not conceive of a situation where you would record this when recording a Medication Statement.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/20/24
Security: Public

Ask Patient Care.  They proposed the original list.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/23/24
Security: Public

FHIR-I is fine with adding MedicationStatement to context (so that you can list protective factors for medications).  Can Pharmacy please confirm they're ok with this added scope?

### 6. Jean Duteau - 5/23/24
Security: Public

We are NOT ok with adding MedicationStatement to this scope.

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/23/24
Security: Public

Ron G. Parker Can you expand on the use-case?

### 8. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

Need feedback to resolve, does not appear urgent and will defer until next release.

### 9. Lynn Laakso - 5/18/26
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2026-01-28 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve / Rick Geimer : 12-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//Need feedback to resolve, does not appear urgent and will defer until next release.

### 10. Lynn Laakso - 5/18/26
Security: Public

re-open post STU publication

