# FHIR-39327: Relative Date Extension needs explanation

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Changes to extension - master b9e39bb

Still need to create examples.  Process for doing that for extensions isn't yet clear, so deferring that part to R6
- **Assignee**: Bryn Rhodes
- **Comments**: 3/19/23
- **Created**: 10/25/22
- **Description**: The Relative Date extension has no examples and no explanation of the code element.  Would it be possible to add additional information to the extension to allow for it's use?
- **Grouping**: [Deferred]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-39327
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extension-relative-date.html
- **Reporter**: David Pyke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will split the event into eventCode and eventReference and add an invariant that at least one must be present.  Will add documentation that either or both can be present.  If both are present, then the eventCode indicates an event that occurs within the context of the reference.

Will provide examples for:
offset from date of birth (code only) (after end of)
offset from Procedure (event only) (before start of)
offset from start of treatment within a clinical trial (Reference to ResearchStudy, eventCode of "start of treatment") (after end of)
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Relative Date Extension needs explanation
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-39327

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/19/23
Security: Public

Changes to extension - master b9e39bb

Still need to create examples.  Process for doing that for extensions isn't yet clear, so deferring that part to R6

### 2. Gino Canessa - 7/21/25
Security: Public

Please ensure that there are examples of this extension somewhere.

