# FHIR-48481: Clarify what changes are permitted in derived SearchParams and Operations

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Elliot Silver Care to write up a detailed proposal of what you think the rules should be?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/20/25
- **Created**: 10/2/24
- **Description**: The documentation on SearchParameter.derivedFrom only says:
the search parameter must be consistent with the definition from which it is defined. i.e. the parameter should have the same meaning, and (usually) the functionality should be a proper subset of the underlying search parameter.
Issues:

	"defined" should be "derived"
	"consistent with the definition" is pretty hand-wavy. Is changing multipleAnd/Or permitted? Can you change the target types? etc.



Similarly, OperationDefinition could probably be made more precise than the existing:
The derived operation can't change the nature of the operation itself, nor can it change add types to parameters or prohibit mandatory parameters.
We've made the requirments for profiles fairly clear. These resources should be documented/validated similarly.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48481
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify what changes are permitted in derived SearchParams and Operations

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48481

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/20/25
Security: Public

Elliot Silver Care to write up a detailed proposal of what you think the rules should be?

### 2. Elliot Silver - 1/21/25
Security: Public

First off, the base element in OperationDefinition indicates which OperationDefinition the current one is derived from. In SearchParameter, this role is taken by the derivedFrom element, while the SearchParameter.base element has a completely different role. Ideally the same name would have been used for both elements. However, since that hasn't occured, text should be provided/modified to clarify the similar role of the differently named elements/different roles of the similarly named elements in the two resources.

I am working on the assumption that both derived OperationDefinition and SearchParameter operate similar to a profile snapshot rather than a differential: Elements omitted are not assumed to have the same value as in the original, but must be repeated. For example, if an operation takes three input parameters, and a derived operation wants to add a fourth input parameter then all four parameters need to be documented in the derived operation, not just the fourth; a derived operation that wants to raise the minimum cardinality of a parameter in an original operation, must provide all the particulars of the parameter, not just the minium cardinality.

OperationDefinition

In Derived OperationDefinitions we are told that derived operations "describe a restricted implementation of an existing operation", and that derived operations can make optional parameters required or prohibited, introduce new required or optional parameters, but can't change the nature of the operation nor add types to parameters or prohibit mandatory parameters. The intent seems to be it must present an API compatible with the existing API. The definition of the base element further clarifies the nature of derivation as "a constraining profile of the base."

In Derived OperationDefinitions, correct "operation can't change the nature of the operation itself, nor can it _change add types _to parameters"; presumably the word "or" is missing.

A derived OperationDefinition:

	must have the same kind as the original OperationDefinition
	cannot have experimental=false if the original OperationDefinition has experimental=true
	must have a resource that is equivalent to or a subset of the original OperationDefinition target
	must have the same values for system, type, instance as the original OperationDefinition
	if the original inputProfile is valued, must have an inputProfile valued such that:
	
		the inputProfile is the same as, is a profile of, or imposes the original inputProfile, or
		the inputProfile is otherwise compatible with the original inputProfile (all parameters profiled with min cardinality 1 from the original inputProfile are profiled; all parameters profiled in the original inputProfile are profiled with equivalent or tighter constraints)
	
	
	if the original outputProfile is valued, must have an outputProfile valued such that:
	
		the outputProfile is the same as, is a profile of, or imposes the original outputProfile, or
		the outputProfile is otherwise compatible with the original outputProfile (all parameters profiled with min cardinality 1 from the original outputProfile are profiled; all parameters profiled in the original outputProfile are profiled with equivalent or tighter constraints)
	
	
	must have a parameter with the same name as any parameter of the original OperationDefinition with a parameter.min value of greater than zero
	for any parameter with the same parameter.name as a parameter of the original OperationDefinition,
	
		must have the same use as the original parameter
		must have the same or greater min value, and the same or lesser max value, as the original parameter
		if the original parameter.type} is valued, must have the same {{type as the original parameter
		if the original parameter.allowedType is valued, must have an allowedType that is the same or a subset of the original parameter.allowedType
		if the original parameter.targetProfile is valued, may only include targetProfile that are the same as, or profiles of, original parameter.targetProfile entries.
		if the original parameter.searchType is valued, must have a searchType with the same value as the original parameter.searchType
		if the original parameter.binding is valued, must have a binding with the same values as, or values meeting the constraints of, the original parameter.binding
		if the original parameter.referencedFrom is valued, must have a referencedFrom with the same values.
		if the original parameter.part is valued,
		
			must have a part with the same name as any part of the original OperationDefinition with a min value of greater than zero
			for any part with the same name as a part of the original OperationDefinition, must meet the above derivation rules
		
		
	
	



Consider whether a derived OperationDefinition:

	must have a useContext and jurisdiction that is equivalent to or a subset of the original OperationDefinition useContext and jurisdiction
	cannot have affectsState=true if the original OperationDefinition has affectsState=false



SearchParameters

Unlike OperationDefinition, SearchParameter gives little guidance on the intent of derived SearchParameters.

The issue here is when should you be able to "derive" from another SearchParameter and when must an independent SearchParameter be defined? Presumably the advantage of declaring a derived SearchParameter is to be able to say "the same as that one, except for...", and only highlight the differences.

Are derived SearchParameters intended to be used for "errata" (e.g., correcting a typo in the expression)? to expand a SearchParameter to be used on a different resource? to indicate that a narrower (or wider) set of return types (perhaps meeting a profile)?

Are we expecting that a system may choose to substitute a derived SearchParameter where the original was intended ("on my system, the patient parameter only returns US Core patients") and if so, is it reasonable to expect that the derived SearchParameter should be broadly compatible with the original? Would we allow "on my system, the patient parameter only returns RelatedPersons" or "...returns the patient name, not Patient resource."

In the definition of SearchParameter.derived from, review "and (usually) the functionality should be a proper subset of the underlying search parameter"–I think a superset of the underlying SearchParameter is also a typical use.

A derived SearchParameter:

	cannot have experimental=false if the original SearchParameter has experimental=true
	must have the same type as the original SearchParameter
	must have the same processingMode as the original SearchParameter
	must have not have values for multipleOr or multipleAnd that contradict a value stated in the original SearchParameter



Consider whether a derived SearchParameter:

	must have a useContext and jurisdiction that is equivalent to or a subset of the original SearchParameter useContext and jurisdiction
	must have a base that is equal to or a subset of the original SearchParameter base
	must have a target that is equivalent to or a subset of the original SearchParameter target
	must support comparator and modifier that is equivalent or a superset of the original SearchParameter comparator and modifier.



I don't know where to go on chain and component.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

