# FHIR-46564: 3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API This section might need some additional context and content to specify orchestration components to manage the operation process chronologically. Polling and subscription are two examples of mechanisms.

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Thomas Zhou can you explain more about what sort of clarification you're looking for?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/26/24
- **Created**: 8/6/24
- **Description**: 3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API
This section might need some additional context and content to specify orchestration components to manage the operation process chronologically.
Polling and subscription are two examples of mechanisms.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46564
- **Related Artifact(s)**: MessageHeader
- **Related Section(s)**: 3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R5/messaging.html
- **Reporter**: Thomas Zhou
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: A REST POST or GET is not necessarily synchronous (clients can request asynchronous processing and servers may support it).

Will update the Asynchronous section as follows:
h4. Asynchronous Application Responses

Messaging intrinsically supports asynchronous processing at the payload level, rather than at the protocol level.  While in typical REST interactions, if a response is not ready right away, there is a need to use special protocol-level [asynchronous processing](async.html).  However, with messaging, responses can always be handled as "just another message payload", this time from initial receiver to initial sender.  As a result, there is no need to (and is rarely, if ever, appropriate to) use RESTful asynchronous processing in situations where it is not possible to provide an immediate response.

If the system responding to a message might not be able to fully process the event in the timeframe required by the transport technology (e.g. before an HTTP timeout), there are two possibilities:
 # In some cases the MessageDefinition for the original message might have an 'allowedResponse' that indicates the response is 'in progress', 'pended', or some similar business concept.  In that case, such a response can be included as response body of the initial 200 Ok.
 # In other cases, there won't be an appropriate 'message-level' response available.  In that situation, the response to the initial $submit-message would simply be a an HTTP 200 with no body.

In either case, the eventual 'full' response (if one is needed) will be handled by transmitting a new message, this time from initial recipient to initial requester.  In some cases, there could be a series of back and for the messages.
 * *Implementation Note:* Previous releases used a combination of Bundle.id and MessageHeader.id in an attempt to establish the message identity. This posed problems when crossing the boundaries between messaging and RESTful exchange. The current release uses Bundle.identifier exclusively to establish and maintain the message identity. The subsequent sections reflect this change.

*Message Delivery without Operations*

In a RESTful environment, rather than invoking a $process-message operation, it's also possible to perform a 'create' of message Bundles on a server and for recipients to poll or subscribe to receive the message and delete it once processed.  Unlike 'Request' resources, messages always have an implicit 'please process' for the recipient of the message.
{quote} 
{quote}
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: 3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API This section might need some additional context and content to specify orchestration components to manage the operation process chronologically. Polling and subscription are two examples of mechanisms.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46564

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/26/24
Security: Public

Thomas Zhou can you explain more about what sort of clarification you're looking for?

### 2. Thomas Zhou - 9/6/24
Security: Public

Thank you, Lloyd, for your continued mentoring.

Here are my additional clarifications:


1. Both the HTTP protocol and RESTful interactions over HTTP are synchronous mechanisms.
2. To implement an asynchronous mechanism using the RESTful API, additional functions or services are required to facilitate such operations, which have not been explicitly addressed in this section.
3. The description in section 3.5.4.1 suggests that an HTTP polling mechanism has been implicitly adopted to manage the asynchronous operations.
4. To provide complete information to the user, it would be helpful to explicitly describe this coupled function in the section.

### 3. Thomas Zhou - 1/2/26
Security: Public

Please consider integrating the link(https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R5/messaging.html#async) smoothly after the specified phrase - low-volume asynchronous exchange.

3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API 
It is possible to exchange messages using the RESTful end-point as a central point of exchange. This is not particularly efficient compared to other methods, but is useful for low-volume asynchronous exchange(https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R5/messaging.html#async).

 

Thansks,

Thomas

### 4. Thomas Zhou - 1/5/26
Security: Public

Please consider integrating the link(https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R5/messaging.html#async) smoothly after the specified phrase - low-volume asynchronous exchange.

3.5.4.1 Asynchronous Messaging using the RESTful API 
It is possible to exchange messages using the RESTful end-point as a central point of exchange. This is not particularly efficient compared to other methods, but is useful for low-volume asynchronous exchange(https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R5/messaging.html#async).

