# FHIR-55921: Constraints on the list of Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussed re-opening to add support for comparing Codings based on display but decided to leave things as they are.  If you want to compare based on display, use enableWhenExpression.  As a rule, comparing based on display is not safe because display values are not stable.  They can change based on language, version of the code system, what code system supplements are in play, which 'designation' a system opts to use, etc.  In most cases, choices of strings should be handled with the 'string' type.  One possible option if exposing legacy data that needs to be treated as codes where an official code is not available is to treat the legacy value as both code and display.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/26/26
- **Created**: 2/19/26
- **Description**: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179255-questionnaire/topic/enableWhen.2EanswerAttachment.20vs.20enableWhen.2Eoperator/with/574402483

 

Not all operators in `Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator`  are appropriate to all types in `Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.answer&#91;x&#93;`. The recently introduced `answerAttachment` along with `answerBoolean`, `answerCoding`, `answerReference` and `answerUri` types can be restricted to `exists`, `=`, `!=`.

 

Lloyd thinks we may need some documentation on matching the attachments for equality.
- **Grouping**: [SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-55921
- **Reporter**: AjayKanduru
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Constraints on the list of Questionnaire.item.enableWhen.operator

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-55921

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/26/26
Security: Public

Discussed re-opening to add support for comparing Codings based on display but decided to leave things as they are.  If you want to compare based on display, use enableWhenExpression.  As a rule, comparing based on display is not safe because display values are not stable.  They can change based on language, version of the code system, what code system supplements are in play, which 'designation' a system opts to use, etc.  In most cases, choices of strings should be handled with the 'string' type.  One possible option if exposing legacy data that needs to be treated as codes where an official code is not available is to treat the legacy value as both code and display.

