# FHIR-52895: Clarify Canonical Version Matching

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Michael Lawley
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The resolution does not account for versions matching (variations of) MMDDYYYY (ie US-centric dates).

It should probably also explicitly link the matching &amp; ordering semantics to each of the options in http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/version-algorithm
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/17/25
- **Created**: 9/16/25
- **Description**: From #fhir/infrastructure-wg &gt; Wildcards in Version references

We need to clarify how version matching works regarding wildcards and partial version specifications.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52895
- **Related Page(s)**: References
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: The matching of version strings depends on the format of the string.  The format can be determined either by looking at the versionSyntax (if present) or inferred.
 # If the format of the version is semver, then semver wildcard logic applies.  Specifically:
  * 2.0 will not match anything (no wildcard specified)
   * 2.0.0 matches 2.0.0 and not 2.0.1 or 2.0.0-something or 2.0.0+something
   * 2.x.x matches 2.0.1 and 2.1.0, etc. but not 2.0.1-something
   * 2.0.* matches 2.0.0, 2.0.1, and not 2.0.0-something or 2.0.0+something
   * 2.0.0-* matches 2.0.0-prerelease or any other label but not 2.0.0+build
   * 2.0.0+* matches 2.0.0+build or any other build but not 2.0.0 or 2.0.0-prerelease
   * 2.0.x-x matches 2.0.1-prerelease or 2.0.1-prerelease but not 2.0.0 or 2.0.1
   * 2.0? matches 2.0.1, 2.0.0-build etc - any valid semver that starts with 2.0
   * 2.0.1? matches 2.0.1, 2.0.1-release, 2.0.1+build etc - anything that starts with 2.0.1
 # if the format of the version is a date, then date matching applies - the version matching string could be YYYY, YYYYMM, YYYY-MM, etc.  The separators specified must match the format of the date.  E.g. If the version is 2024-01-05, then 202401 won't match, but 2024-01 will.  On the other hand, if the version is 20240105, then 202401 will match and 2024/01 will not.

3. if the format of the version string is a url (a la snomed) then matching on URL applies - so matching is done by tokenizing the URL on '/' and matching on all provided tokens.  I.e. [http://foo.com/bar] would match [http://foo.com/bar/1], but would not match [http://foo.com/bar1]

4. otherwise, left matching of the string applies.  I.e. If the version starts with (case sensitive) the search string, it's a match.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify Canonical Version Matching
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52895

## Comments

### 1. Michael Lawley - 9/17/25
Security: Public

The resolution does not account for versions matching (variations of) MMDDYYYY (ie US-centric dates).

It should probably also explicitly link the matching &amp; ordering semantics to each of the options in http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/version-algorithm

### 2. Michael Lawley - 9/17/25
Security: Public

Calling out SNOMED in item 3 is wrong.  The SNOMED URI spec is clear on semantics and specifies how an Edition URI is effectively wildcard logic (in the sense used here) for latest-available of that Edition.

It also includes additional syntax for Editions and Versions that include extension content (somewhat like a SNOMED supplement).  I think a better resolution for calling out SNOMED (which should be listed in the http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/version-algorithm valueset) is to simply defer to the SNOMED URI spec.

### 3. Michael Lawley - 9/17/25
Security: Public

Re 4, how does one express exact match?  This would seem to be quite important in the case of ad hoc version schemes (which fall into this category) so that inadvertent matches do not happen.

