# FHIR-10238: Create/update should allow OperationOutcome response on success

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The problem is that there's often also a need to return a copy of the created resource (so that you know what was stored for the purpose of subsequent updates - what's stored isn't necessarily what's sent).

         The same issue applies for updates.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/24/16
- **Created**: 6/24/16
- **Description**: Per http://hl7-fhir.github.io/http.html#2.1.0.5.2 (create/update/transaction) when the server completes a create/update/transaction it may optionally return the complete body, or nothing. When the operation fails it should return an operation outcome.

         I think the server should be able to return an OperationOutcome on success. This shouldn't be a requirement, but the current spec bans this and I don't see any good reason to ban it.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-10238
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)
- **Reporter**: James Agnew
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Create/update should allow OperationOutcome response on success
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-10238

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/24/16
Security: Public

The problem is that there's often also a need to return a copy of the created resource (so that you know what was stored for the purpose of subsequent updates - what's stored isn't necessarily what's sent).

         The same issue applies for updates.

