# FHIR-53958: Additional Functions section cleanup

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/12/26
- **Description**: Remove the last sentance and bullet point on additional functions where it says some resources define their own functions, QuestionnaireResponse no longer defines any functions, and there are no others, so just remove it.

The function comparable has been logged to include in fhirpath, so remove from FHIR.

https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53957

If it not accepted to be normative there, why should it be normative in FHIR.

As this leaves no functions in the proposed for FHIRPath core, remove the sentance that mentions that some functions are candidates for promotion to the base fhirpath specifcation.

Consider re-organizating the section into 2 headings:

	Additional Functions
	Function Overrides (or similar name)



The Function Overrides section is to cover functions that cover how specific core functions will work with FHIR specific types - toString and ofType.

Also rename the Changes to operators section to Operator Overrides to be consistent with function overrides, as that's what this is describing, and it's the following section at the same level.
And add a section heading to the equivalence operator (so it can be linked to)
- **Grouping**: [Fit-For-Teleconference, block]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53958
- **Related Page(s)**: FHIRPath (fluentpath)
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.9.1.5 Additional functions and 2.1.9.1.6 Changes to operators
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot4/fhirpath.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: As comparable has been approved and applied to the CI version of fhirpath (hoping to publish STU soon), remove this function from FHIR core.

[https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/FHIRPath/#fn-comparable]

The other proposed functions to move to fhirpath have been moved (highboundary/lowboundary).

As such we will remove the now redundant sentance

_"Some of these functions are candidates for elevation to the base version of FHIRPath when the next version is released."_

We will also re-organize the function headings as requested.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Additional Functions section cleanup
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53958

## Comments

_No comments in export._
