# FHIR-39392: targetElement examples don't seem right

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Cooper Thompson
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Can.20the.20targetElement.20extension.20refer.20to.20extensions.3F

 

 I misunderstood how this extension works.  The examples can be right assuming the target Patient has a name element that has an id.  Since you need both an annotated Patient and the extension for this to work, could the example include the annotated Patient?  Not sure if the build will let us publish a Bundle as an example with both Provenance and Patient?  Or maybe contain the patient?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/8/22
- **Created**: 11/7/22
- **Description**: https://build.fhir.org/provenance-example1.html

https://build.fhir.org/provenance-example2.html

 

Those extensions list "n1" and "n2" as the targetElement for Patient.  But those are not valid elements.

 

And while we are fixing up examples, it would be nice to have one that shows how to use targetElement to reference an extension in the target resource.
- **Grouping**: [Deferred]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-39392
- **Related Page(s)**: (many)
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/extension-targetelement.html
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: targetElement examples don't seem right

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-39392

## Comments

### 1. Cooper Thompson - 11/8/22
Security: Public

https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/Can.20the.20targetElement.20extension.20refer.20to.20extensions.3F

 

 I misunderstood how this extension works.  The examples can be right assuming the target Patient has a name element that has an id.  Since you need both an annotated Patient and the extension for this to work, could the example include the annotated Patient?  Not sure if the build will let us publish a Bundle as an example with both Provenance and Patient?  Or maybe contain the patient?

### 2. Josh Mandel - 1/18/23
Security: Public

From discussion in FHIR-I at WGM: The current examples are technically OK, because this extension points to an element by id, and "n1" indeed exists as an id in https://build.fhir.org/patient-example-c.json.html

First, does this make sense now? (Your comment above suggests: Yes.)

Second: Of course we'd like to improve these examples &#8211; maybe by adding a bundle that shows both sides of the reference. Do you have a specific use case for why you want to reference an extension by ID? That way we can provide a realistic and motivated example...

### 3. Cooper Thompson - 1/19/23
Security: Public

The three examples where this extension comes up are race, ethnicity, and gender identity.  Race and ethnicity are realm-specific extensions on patient.  But we do have the individual-genderIdentity extension on Patient, so maybe that is a good example to do.

