# FHIR-43753: Naming conventions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Preference is for dash-separated.

Name should reflect 'meaning'.  Context is sometimes relevant to that, sometimes not.

Grahame Grieve nominates Reuben Daniels to do a survey of what we're currently doing and report back to FHIR-I with recommendations.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/2/24
- **Created**: 1/18/24
- **Description**: To get the most utility out of the extension pack, there should be naming conventions. It's too late for existing extensions, but there will be plenty more added later. There are several different conventions happening, and many exceptions. Should the context be part of the name, as in condition-related? Should the source IG, as in cqf-encounterType? If the extension applies in multiple contexts, how should it be named (e.g. event-location)? Naming guidance will improve the usability of the registry over time.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43753
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extensions/5.1.0-ballot/extension-registry.html
- **Reporter**: Mark Kramer
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Naming conventions
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43753

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 2/2/24
Security: Public

Preference is for dash-separated.

Name should reflect 'meaning'.  Context is sometimes relevant to that, sometimes not.

Grahame Grieve nominates Reuben Daniels to do a survey of what we're currently doing and report back to FHIR-I with recommendations.

### 2. Josh Mandel - 11/24/25
Security: Public

Reuben Daniels Is this still in your plate? We would like to settle this or close it out by February 1st, 2026 if there is no energy to make progress.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

Work is in progress, but will not be ready in time for a timely publication.

### 4. Lynn Laakso - 5/18/26
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2026-01-28 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve / Michael Donnelly : 10-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//Work is in progress but will not be ready in time for a timely publication.

### 5. Lynn Laakso - 5/18/26
Security: Public

re-open post STU publication

### 6. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/19/26
Security: Public

At minimum, we should define a "best practice" constraint enforcing consistency around base syntax (i.e. UpperCamelCase, lowerCamelCase, dash-separated).  Prefixes are harder because they imply context/ownership but both can change, and we usually don't want to change the URL when we change context/ownership.  However, we will 'recommend' that extensions start with their context resource or pattern if there is one.

