# FHIR-43405: Add an ability to assert validity of part of an instance to a profile

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Will evaluate if there's a good way to do this, e.g. w/ conformsTo, as well as whether we need to impose any constraints.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/8/24
- **Created**: 12/24/23
- **Description**: Sometimes you have an example Bundle with entries (or a resource with contained resources) where you want to assert that a child element is valid against a profile without defining a profile for the root resource that enforces those child profiles.  The intention is to allow testing of validity without requiring the declaration of a meta.profile in the instance.

The simplest thing to do would be to define a complex extension that could appear on ImplementationGuide.definition.resource with components for:

	'element' 1..1 string - "FHIRPath that points to the element within the instance that complies with a particular profile"
	'profile' 1..1 canonical(StructureDefinition) "The profile the specified element complies to".
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43405
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will define an extension in the FHIR Tooling IG to add this capability to tooling:
* Id: {{inner-resource-profile}}
* Context: {{ImplementationGuide.definition.resource}}
* Cardinality: 0..*
* Elements:
** {{path}} {{1..1}} {{string}}: "FHIRPath that points to the element within the instance that complies with a particular profile.  FHIRPath context is root resource pointed to by {{ImplementationGuide.definition.resource.reference}}."
** {{profile}} {{1..1}} {{canonical(StructureDefinition)}}: "The profile the specified element complies to."

Note that the only use cases presented are only relevant to tooling and thus will be in the tooling IG.  If there are additional uses down the road, we can consider creating a more general-purpose extension.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Add an ability to assert validity of part of an instance to a profile
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43405

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/8/24
Security: Public

Will evaluate if there's a good way to do this, e.g. w/ conformsTo, as well as whether we need to impose any constraints.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 1/12/26
Security: Public

Discussing in FHIR-I, 2026.01.12

