# FHIR-40405: Need profile on Identifer datatype that is holding a User identity

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Once this is available, then https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27164 should be addressed using this profile.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/6/23
- **Created**: 2/6/23
- **Description**: create an Identifier Datatype profile to apply to describe how to populate the identifier for user usage.

	value = username / userid
	assigner = assigning authority
	type = fixed value "username" or whatever you decide



Not clear that there is an existing code to use? https://terminology.hl7.org/3.1.0/CodeSystem-v2-0203.html
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-40405
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will propose a new Identifier.type code called "USER" in the existing v2 code system and, once accepted, will add it to the FHIR Identifier.type value set.

Display "User Name"

Definition "An identifier for an individual (or occasionally another system)  that has access to a system.  It is used in authenticating the individual and/or logging their actions.  AKA User Id."

We will *not* define a profile on Identifier in the core spec as we don't have any other profiles on identifier, nor do we have a place where we would point to 'user' in the core spec

(We're open to feedback from v2 if they feel CAAI should be used for this purpose instead.)
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Need profile on Identifer datatype that is holding a User identity
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-40405

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 2/6/23
Security: Public

Once this is available, then https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-27164 should be addressed using this profile.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2023-02-13 00:00:00.0 with vote Grahame Grieve/John Moehrke: 17-0-0//(Impact: null; Category: null; Version: null)//Need to add a new code to THO, but too late to do that for R5.  Will tackle as part of R6.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 4. Rita Torkzadeh - 5/19/23
Security: Public

John Moehrke Gino Canessa Lloyd McKenzie Richard Ettema I accidently assigned this to myself and not sure how to revert the error. Please let me know how or change!

### 5. Richard Ettema - 5/19/23
Security: Public

Rita Torkzadeh I have unassigned you.

