# FHIR-56813: Clarify what types of parameters should be in Bundle self links for search-set

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Michele Mottini
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: &gt; should the server move the Accept header value into _format?

 

I'd say no. Only move to the self url actual query parameters that have been recognized / used.

 

The current specs say

 

&gt; servers SHALL return the parameters that were actually used to process a search

 

speaking of parameters, not headers
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/7/26
- **Created**: 5/4/26
- **Description**: Source:  https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/Self-link.20-.20search.20params.20and.2For.20result.20params.3F

 

 

 The self link says:
In order to allow the client to be confident about what search parameters were used as criteria by a server, servers...
This intro says "search parameters", but the rest of the section often uses "parameters".

 

We should clarify whether self links should include only search parameters, or also result parameters.

 

We should also describe how things like the Accept header should be handled with regard to _format.  If a client omits the _format header, but provides an Accept header, should the server move the Accept header value into _format?
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-56813
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/search.html#selflink
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Clarify what types of parameters should be in Bundle self links for search-set
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-56813

## Comments

### 1. Michele Mottini - 5/7/26
Security: Public

&gt; should the server move the Accept header value into _format?

 

I'd say no. Only move to the self url actual query parameters that have been recognized / used.

 

The current specs say

 

&gt; servers SHALL return the parameters that were actually used to process a search

 

speaking of parameters, not headers

