# FHIR-45433: Broken sentence and changed requirement on package manifest

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Ward Weistra
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: More of a technical correction actually, after I read the comment on canonical.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/30/24
- **Created**: 4/30/24
- **Description**: There's a broken sentence in the package spec:
A dependency on a core package is required, and this dependency defines the basic
I assume this intends to say that this defines the FHIR version this package is based on (see the comment in fhirVersions)

 

Furthermore, the canonical parameter in the package spec has changed from optional (Confluence package spec) to required (Core package spec) when migrating this into the spec. The comment makes clear that this is not for all packages. Suggest changing this to optional (see comment) or similar.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45433
- **Related Page(s)**: Packages
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/fhir/packages.html
- **Reporter**: Ward Weistra
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will fix the text in the {{dependencies}} entry of [FHIR:Packages:package.json|https://build.fhir.org/packages.html#2.1.10.2]:
{quote}Any dependencies SHALL be listed her *e* - that is, any other package that contains resources referred to by the resources in the package. Packages SHOULD be referred to by the whole package version number and not use wildcards, except for the patch version in a *SemVer* version reference. The {{x}} in the following example means that a package resolver should accept the package with the highest found patch number:
{code:json}
"dependencies": {
  "hl7.fhir.r5.core": "5.0.x"
}
{code}
A dependency on a core package is required, and this dependency defines the FHIR version used to resolve the contents of this dependency tree. If multiple core package dependencies are listed, the first instance is the version used.
{quote}
Will update the {{canonical}} entry to be: {{_conditionally_ required}} and the text to:
{quote}The canonical URL for the Implementation guide represented by the package, if this package represents a single Implementation Guide. This SHALL be present if the package is for an Implementation Guide and is optional for other packages.
{quote}
 
We will not prohibit depending on multiple versions of core because, while not yet supported by current tool stacks, the methodology allows for it and we do hope at some point to have IGs that depend on multiple versions of the core spec.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Broken sentence and changed requirement on package manifest
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45433

## Comments

### 1. Ward Weistra - 4/30/24
Security: Public

More of a technical correction actually, after I read the comment on canonical.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 5/21/24
Security: Public

I think that should be considered as a copy/paste error. canonical is not intended to be required

### 3. Corey Spears - 6/3/24
Security: Public

This page is marked as Informative yet has conformance language. Another ticket is being created to address that matter.

Moving to a TC to address the cutoff sentence.

### 4. Gino Canessa - 12/9/24
Security: Public

Ward Weistra and Grahame Grieve  - are you both ok with the proposed disposition?  Thanks!

### 5. Ward Weistra - 12/16/24
Security: Public

Sounds good. I only wonder whether "If multiple core package dependencies are listed, the first instance is the version used." will lead more people to believe that it would be OK to have dependencies on multiple FHIR versions (also see https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48548).

Can we perhaps clarify that this is not supported? (`fhirVersions` has a short sentence about "Most packages only use one version." though it doesn't clarify when it would be acceptable.)

### 6. Ward Weistra - 4/16/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3461

### 7. Grahame Grieve - 11/2/25
Security: Public

Already done

