# FHIR-17779: Please fix the tracking system to use what you already know

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: none of this is possible with stupid gForge, or we would already have done it. This is one of many reasons we are desperate to adopt Jira
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/31/18
- **Created**: 8/31/18
- **Description**: I would use this tracker more if I didn't have to copy and paste the URL from the browser that called this page, and pick and choose:

         The Real Submitter (you make me login!). 

         The part of the FHIR Specification I was just looking at.

         The HTML Page

         The Resource.

         The appropriate reviewing workgroup.



         ALL of this is known when I click the link, or at least has decent default values.
- **Grouping**: [FHIR-Tools-Core]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-17779
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Reporter**: Keith W. Boone
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: This is already identified as a needed enhancement to the tools.

You can monitor it here: https://github.com/HL7/ig-template-hl7/issues/10
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Please fix the tracking system to use what you already know
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-17779

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 8/31/18
Security: Public

none of this is possible with stupid gForge, or we would already have done it. This is one of many reasons we are desperate to adopt Jira

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2019-03-18 00:00:00.0 with vote Eric Haas / Grahame Grieve: 7-0-1//(Impact: null; Category: Enhancement; Version: null)//Will look at this in R5 after we've transitioned to Jira.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 4. Grahame Grieve - 2/28/25
Security: Public

We have done what is possible here

