# FHIR-45012: Extension for tracking changes in facade contexts

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Discussion was whether the intention of lastUpdated was "have any bytes in this resource changed?", is it more "has the primary record for this resource in the storage system changed?", with the second potentially allowing certain foreign-key references such as code displays, language translations, etc. that don't live in that primary record to have evolved without changing meta.lastUpdated (or meta.versionId).  The answer to that question will drive whether this extension is necessary.  There's a range of precision between "have any bytes changed" and "implementers do whatever you like" that we may want to try to nail down.

Adding this extension may add complexity for implementers which may now need to search in two different places to get "has anything changed".
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/25/24
- **Created**: 3/20/24
- **Description**: Based on implementer feedback, many facade servers cannot faithfully populate the Meta.lastUpdated element but do want to provide timing information based on changes they track. For example, an EHR knows when an Observation.status has changed but may be using a local mapping table for codes in the Observation and not track that a display name has been updated.

In order to provide that information to clients, we propose adding a new extension called last-underlying-data-update:

	Name: last-underlying-data-update
	Cardinality: 0..1
	Context: Meta
	Type: instant
	Short: When the server last updated underlying data relating to this resource
	Definition: An instant that identifies when data on a server has been updated that may impact this FHIR resource.
	Comments: This extension is used in situations where a server cannot track every type of change to a resource but still wants to indicate the times when data for the resource is changed.  For example, many servers generate instance details by mapping sets of codes from an internal system when an instance is requested.  In the case that the mapping table is updated, there may be millions of records changed which is not currently feasible to track on each individual instance.  This extension allows servers to track when core or significant resource elements (e.g., status, etc.) are changed without needing to track the entire graph of possible changes.



Paired with the extension, we would like to add a new search parameter, _lastUnderlyingDataUpdate:

	Name: _lastUnderlyingDataUpdate
	Type: date
	Context: All resources
	Definition: Matching is performed against either the element Resource.meta.lastUpdated, the last-underlying-data-update extension, or an implementation's internal equivalent.



For additional context, please see the call notes for Detecting and Reporting Changes.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45012
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add a comment on meta.lastUpdated saying:

"There may be situations where the returned data elements might change *without* any change to the lastUpdated element.  For example, if a server returns a code and its corresponding display by using a foreign-key reference to the code system, updates to the code system that affect the display name might not be reflected in the lastUpdated value of the resource holding the code.  It is also possible that an underlying record might be updated in a way that isn't actually surfaced in the FHIR resource (e.g. changing non-exposed metadata) that would cause lastUpdated to change even when there is no apparent change in the data."
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Extension for tracking changes in facade contexts
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45012

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/25/24
Security: Public

Discussion was whether the intention of lastUpdated was "have any bytes in this resource changed?", is it more "has the primary record for this resource in the storage system changed?", with the second potentially allowing certain foreign-key references such as code displays, language translations, etc. that don't live in that primary record to have evolved without changing meta.lastUpdated (or meta.versionId).  The answer to that question will drive whether this extension is necessary.  There's a range of precision between "have any bytes changed" and "implementers do whatever you like" that we may want to try to nail down.

Adding this extension may add complexity for implementers which may now need to search in two different places to get "has anything changed".

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 1/7/25
Security: Public

Core: ExtensionChanges 8d7041c700

