# FHIR-50893: Add new additional binding purpose of CurrentExtensible

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Marc Duteau
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: During May 2025 WGM Wednesday Q4 motion to endorse this proposal for approval by FHIR-I with a friendly amendment to include a purpose of best practice.   Lloyd McKenzie / Reuben Daniels : 9-0-0
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/14/25
- **Created**: 5/14/25
- **Description**: The 'current' binding is defined as follows:
"New records are required to use this value set, but legacy records may use other codes. The definition of 'new record' is difficult, since systems often create new records based on pre-existing data. Usually 'current' bindings are mandated by an external authority that makes clear rules around this."

That means that for locally captured new concepts, everything must fit in the value set. That's great in many cases, but sometimes there's the possibility the value set won't cover everything. Suggest defining the following new code called "current-extensible" with a definition that says:
"New records captured by the originating system SHALL attempt to map the data they capture to this value set. If the mapping determines that it is possible to convey the concept at some level of granularity using a code from the value set, then that code shall be present in the instance. This binding imposes no expectations on legacy or externally sourced records. The definitions of 'legacy content' and 'externally sourced content' are difficult, since systems often create new records based on pre-existing data and the boundaries around what is a distinct 'external' system can be fuzzy. The guide should define or reference guidance for how such definitions will be evaluated for the purpose of evaluating conformance.  This purpose should only be used for bindings where it's possible for a concept to NOT fall within the value set.  If the value set includes broad all-encompassing codes or a code that conveys the concept of 'other', then use 'current' rather than 'current-extensible'."

Furthermore, suggest updating the definition of 'current' to align. Content in bold represents language that has been adjusted:
"New records captured by the originating system SHALL only include this element if it contains a code from this value set. This binding exposes no expectations on * legacy *or externally sourced records. The definitions of 'legacy' or 'externally sourced' content' are difficult, since systems often create new records based on pre-existing data and the boundaries around what is a distinct 'external' system can be fuzzy. The guide should define or reference guidance for how such definitions will be evaluated for the purpose of evaluating conformance."
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50893
- **Related Page(s)**: ElementDefinition
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add new additional binding purpose of CurrentExtensible
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50893

## Comments

### 1. Marc Duteau - 5/14/25
Security: Public

During May 2025 WGM Wednesday Q4 motion to endorse this proposal for approval by FHIR-I with a friendly amendment to include a purpose of best practice.   Lloyd McKenzie / Reuben Daniels : 9-0-0

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/14/25
Security: Public

More details on "best practice" concept

Add an additional binding strength of "bestpractice" display "Best Practice" with definition:

"Instances are strongly encouraged to have a code from this value set and, if they enable the "best practice" validation mode, they will receive a 'best practice violation' message for data elements that do not include a code from this value set."

 

Also proposal to add an abstract code in the binding purpose code system called "open" with a definition of "A grouper for binding codes that do not impose formal conformance expectations, though some of them may result in information or best practice validation messages.".  Make the following codes specializations of 'open' - candidate, preferred, ui, starter, component.

Question: do we want to add 'example' to this code system so that all bindings exist in one code system?  While additional 'example' bindings are a weird thing to do, it's not wrong.  And it would be nice for them to all be in the same code system.  We could then have both the base 'binding' and 'additional binding' value sets draw from the same code system.

