# FHIR-48422: Basic resource should be implicitly allowed for all Reference and Resource uses

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: John Moehrke
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: likely core reference restrictions might have implied Basic. Where as Profiled References (IGs) remove this implied Basic.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 9/26/24
- **Created**: 9/26/24
- **Description**: Given that Basic is intended to be available for custom resource definitions. There should be implicit acceptance that any Reference might be to a Basic resource.
I think that it is already understood that Bundle.element.resource can carry a Basic; however a profiled version of Bundle.element.resource should also be implicit allowed to be Basic.

This implicit acceptance of Basic seems the only way to allow for future custom resources, and follows Postel's Law. However I am willing to understand other methods of supporting Postel's Law while still enabling profiling to really mean NOT Basic.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48422
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Basic
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: There's an alternate-reference extension for this purpose.  We will add the following language to the References.html page before Canonical References called "Additional References"

"Sometimes there is a need to communicate a reference to a resource that is not a defined target for the element in the version of FHIR being used.  There are two common situations for this:
* A future (or past) version of FHIR allows a reference to additional targets and the system has a need to be able to communicate such a reference.  This may include references to resources that don't even exist in the version of FHIR being used, in which case the target would be a Basic instance using the [inter-version conversion rules].
* An [additional resource] has been defined that is a logical target for the element.  Core elements aren't permitted to have resource targets that are additional resources, though profiles might wish to allow pointing to them.

In both of these cases, the solution is to use the [alternate-reference] extension.  It allows referencing any type of resource - including additional resources.  The targetProfile used when profiling this extension is free to point to a narrower profile than a resource - e.g. a specific inter-version resource profile on Basic.

In some cases, an additional resource may migrate to be a core resource and become allowed as a target resource.  Systems that have not yet updated to support that new core resource may struggle with the migration of the reference from the additional-reference to the standard Reference.reference element.  Communication partners will need to manage this transition."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Basic resource should be implicitly allowed for all Reference and Resource uses
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48422

## Comments

### 1. John Moehrke - 9/26/24
Security: Public

likely core reference restrictions might have implied Basic. Where as Profiled References (IGs) remove this implied Basic.

