# FHIR-38982: Consider subscription notification with a way to download a manifest

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Mandel
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Very interesting use case!

 

Might be an easier discussion on Zulip, but I would like to understand a bit more about the use case. You mentioned that the content can get large; should I assume that the number of resources also gets large?

 

Is there no existing resource like a diagnostic report that links to all the pieces? Like no existing grouper structure that could be conveyed in the subscription notification, allowing a client to do an efficient downstream request (potentially with bulk, like "GET /DiagnosticReport/123&amp;_include=..." using Prefer: Respond-Async)? 

 

Alternatively, with the current subscriptions infrastructure you could consider a topic like " genomic sequencing results available" with a focal resource of type Binary to include a bulk manifest there... 

 

Anyway, just thinking about what could be done with the existing infrastructure which already has the notion of a focal resource, composable with other operations for expanding around that focus.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 10/12/22
- **Created**: 10/12/22
- **Description**: We are looking (early phase, lots can change) at using subscriptions for genomic results, where we want the lab to send the result via SubscriptionStatus.  However, for some genomic results, the content can be very large.  One thought we had was adding an option to SubscriptionStatus to specify the payload as a "Bulk-Data-like" manifest of NDJSON files.  

This is basically a hybrid between an id-only notify with REST query and sending everything in the notification payload.  Instead of having to stumble through the REST API to find everything, you get it all neatly packed up for you in the manifest and files.  It also avoids the size limitations of trying to push very large content inside the notification bundle.
- **Grouping**: [R6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-38982
- **Reporter**: Cooper Thompson
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Triaged
- **Summary**: Consider subscription notification with a way to download a manifest

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-38982

## Comments

### 1. Josh Mandel - 10/12/22
Security: Public

Very interesting use case!

 

Might be an easier discussion on Zulip, but I would like to understand a bit more about the use case. You mentioned that the content can get large; should I assume that the number of resources also gets large?

 

Is there no existing resource like a diagnostic report that links to all the pieces? Like no existing grouper structure that could be conveyed in the subscription notification, allowing a client to do an efficient downstream request (potentially with bulk, like "GET /DiagnosticReport/123&amp;_include=..." using Prefer: Respond-Async)? 

 

Alternatively, with the current subscriptions infrastructure you could consider a topic like " genomic sequencing results available" with a focal resource of type Binary to include a bulk manifest there... 

 

Anyway, just thinking about what could be done with the existing infrastructure which already has the notion of a focal resource, composable with other operations for expanding around that focus.

### 2. Cooper Thompson - 10/12/22
Security: Public

We were trying to avoid having to pre-coordinate REST "incantations".  The DiagnosticReport with include and _revInclude _could work, but then the client needs to know what incantation to use to get all the data and the server needs to support whatever parameters are in that incantation.  If you just want the Observations, Encounter, and Patient from DiagnosticReport, that isn't so bad, but for ordering workflows you have Account, Coverage, Specimen, etc..  But in general, if the sender "knows" all of the relevant data, we are looking for a way for the sender to provide that in one package.  

 

There are two important criteria for me when considering exchange models

	"Which party knows what the relevant data is".  If the sender knows what data is relevant, then packing it up for the recipient is ideal (which lends itself to messaging, subscriptions with data in the bundle, or maybe this manifest approach).  If the recipient knows what data is relevant, then they can go find it (vanilla REST API, id-only Subscriptions to initiate the REST API, or Bulk FHIR).
	"What access is the data owner willing to give the recipient"  For ordering/resulting with a partner that is "external", normally organizations aren't going to be willing to give their partner full access to any patient or result via the REST API.  This means that the data owner will have access controls that specify which results are available to which parties.  Which goes back to #1, where the data owner needs to know what data is relevant to the recipient so they can grant access to it.  And if the sender needs to figure that out, then they might as well pack it up in a nice bundle, rather than binding the list of allowed resource instances to an access token and letting the recipient stumble through the REST API.



 

I've started to like the phrase "stumble through the REST API" to describe the exercise I expect where different vendors, different tests, and different reporting methods will very likely have different schemas for similar data.  So while it is all FHIR REST, you still have different schemas.  For example:

	Chem test results will have different result schemas than micro results.
	The DxRpt-&gt;Obs-&gt;Obs links for micro results can vary based on whether the method is reported.
	For ordering workflows, sending billing info is relevant (should the lab bill the patient insurance, or bill the ordering organization).  Cerner and Epic (for example) have very different ways we handle registration info in Encounters, Accounts and Coverages, and it can all be in FHIR, but not be consistent (similar to the https://confluence.hl7.org/display/PA/Appointment+Scheduling+-+Industry+Divergence.  It is all FHIR, but not uniform.
	etc.



In all of these cases, the clients either needs to 1) pre-coordinate all the schemas so they know how to get stuff via the REST API (either via specified REST incantations, or by inference by dereferencing everything and seeing what they get or 2) get everything packaged from the sender, who knows the schema.

### 3. Gino Canessa - 10/13/22
Security: Public

I think there might be a small disconnect regarding the inclusions via Subscriptions.

A SubscriptionTopic builds up a list of possible include/revinclude directives as hinting for included resources.

For subscription senders, this is intended as 'what you should try to include if it exists' (e.g., authors working in this domain have determined that these related resources are relevant/necessary).

For subscription receivers, this is intended as a way to traverse the resources in a notification (e.g., this is a path from the key resource to resolve to an included resource).

The requirements around it were also left purposely loose - e.g., language like "Servers SHOULD include resources listed here, if they exist and the user is authorized to receive them.".  This way, implementers are free to (for example) add a resource that is not already listed because they found it is necessary for their use cases.

But if an implementation is adding resources that a client would not know how to traverse, it would be good practice(tm) to derive a new SubscriptionTopic and add the chains.  Otherwise, a client may not understand how to get from 'focus' to 'arbitrary inclusion'.


Attempted TLDR: in subscriptions, the "base" for preparing the traversal mapping is when the topic is defined - whether that is in an IG or when a vendor defines it.  Unless restricted by an IG/etc., servers also have the flexibility to modify the inclusions, but are recommended to derive a new topic so receivers can relate resources properly.


All of that said, since elements like SubscriptionStatus.notificationEvent.additionalContext are Reference(Any), you could just send a notification with a focus resource (or use a Parameters, Basic, or Binary, etc.) and put links to NDJSON files in the additionalContext.

### 4. Cooper Thompson - 10/13/22
Security: Public

Hmm.. I guess that would work.  But SubscriptionStatus.additionalContext would need to be a link to a Binary that had the manifest, since the reference data type doesn't let you point straight to a manifest.  It would be nice if we didn't have to jump through the Binary hoop.

### 5. Cooper Thompson - 10/14/22
Security: Public

I was thinking it was an issue that the list in SubscriptionStatus would be references instead of resources, requiring HTTP dereferences. But I'm a noob, and forgot we can just include them in the bundle so you only need to do in-bundle dereferencing.

I'm going to assign this to me as a "waiting for input".  I'll chew on options, and if we end up needing this, I'll put it back in the queue for WG review.

### 6. Josh Mandel - 10/14/22
Security: Public

Sounds good! 

Some considerations:

	Do you want a whole "Bulk Manifest" with an array of URLs/types, plus access token hint, transaction time, etc? Or just a link to an NDJSON file?
	Are there some resources you'd want to include directly in the notification, to assist in handling prior to retrieval of "the bulk stuff" (e.g., Patient, DiagnosticReport, ...)?



—

Just to share a concrete example with "Binary", since I think it looks OK...

https://gist.github.com/jmandel/bfe7c26d7df1e327282952083f744d4c

### 7. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/10/23
Security: Public

Josh will ping Cooper Thompson to see if he's still interested in this.

### 8. Cooper Thompson - 7/10/23
Security: Public

We ended up doing something different for our genomics use case, and it hasn't really come up again, so I'm happy to either defer this, or close not persuasive.

