# FHIR-34232: relative-date needs work

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Attention Bryn Rhodes
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/3/21
- **Created**: 11/3/21
- **Description**: Event should allow both a CodeableConcept and a Reference, as there's a need to be able to say things like "after admission" or "after discharge" with respect to a particular Encounter or "after enrollment", "after treatment start", or "after treatment end" for a ResearchStudy.

Also, we need to define an initial set of event codes, including those above plus "date of birth" (making offset an age) as well as "deceased date"

We need to make clear that if offset is negative, it expresses a duration prior to the event.  E.g. "3 hours before the patient died".
- **Grouping**: [Extension-pack, Workflow]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-34232
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We already have a code and a reference, so that part's done.  However, based on discussion, we still need some changes:
 # Relax the constraint on path to allow full FHIRPath.
 # Provide guidance that Reference + path gives you a fully computable anchor (e.g. Patient.birthDate or ResearchSubject.progress.where(milestone.coding.where(system=x and code=y).exists()).startDate), while Code gives something that is more meaningful to a user (e.g. 'age', 'startOfTreatment').  Suggest that often there might be utility in having both
 # Provide examples covering common things like "after admission", "after discharge", "after enrollment", "before death", etc.
 # Define a starter value set of common codes which include in their description what the associated paths would be - e.g. birth, death, encounter start, encounter end, etc.

5. Will drop 'relationship' as the only relationship relevant is before, after or simultaneous with, which is conveyed by the offset.  Path can refer to the .start or .end within an element.

6. Will update the definition of 'offset' to be:
The duration before or after the event that the element on which this extension appears is asserted to be.

Comments: a negative offset indicates a duration 'prior' to the event.  E.g. "3 days prior to patient death".  A positive offset indicates a duration 'after' the event.  E.g. "27 years after birth - i.e. Age 27".  An offset of 0 indicates occurrence simultaneous with the referenced event.  E.g. "Started therapy immediately on admission"

7. Will change the name to relativeDate
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: relative-date needs work
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-34232

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/3/21
Security: Public

Attention Bryn Rhodes

### 2. Bryn Rhodes - 7/24/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir-extensions/pull/193

### 3. Bryn Rhodes - 7/24/25
Security: Public

Note that to maintain backwards-compatibility, I deprecated, rather than removed the relationship element, and that I did not change the name.

