# FHIR-49912: Recommend adding link to AD-Use extension to deprecated Preferred Extension

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Alex Goel The AD use extension has nothing to do with address preference, so why would we point to it from the deprecated 'preferred' extension?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 6/23/25
- **Created**: 2/27/25
- **Description**: Add a link to the AD Use extension to make it easier to find on the Preferred Extension page
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-49912
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureDefinition
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extensions/StructureDefinition-iso21090-preferred.html
- **Reporter**: Alex Goel
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: # We will define a new extension called "Rank" 0..1 integer with a context of Address, Patient.contact, Organization.contact
Definition: Indicates the relative preference of an element within a collection of repeating elements.  Lower numbers indicate a stronger degree of preference.  Equal number indicate equal preference.
 # We will update the deprecation notes of StructureDefinition-iso21090-preferred, and StructureDefinition-organization-preferredContact to refer to this extension
 # We will submit a change request against StructureDefinition-patient-contactPriority suggesting that it also be deprecated and point to the new 'rank' extension.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Recommend adding link to AD-Use extension to deprecated Preferred Extension
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-49912

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 6/23/25
Security: Public

Alex Goel The AD use extension has nothing to do with address preference, so why would we point to it from the deprecated 'preferred' extension?

### 2. Alex Goel - 6/25/25
Security: Public

I see. It appeared that one was the AD Use was a replacement for AD preference. For CA Baseline AD Preference is still in use and there were questions of if AD Use should replace it, but it didn't seem to be good fit for the use case.

