# FHIR-57219: Target List Mode first/last/single don't make sense

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Also, what does this text mean? "up to the first common n items, then create new ones" where is the "n" defined? (nothing in the fml or structuremap formats)

(the source list mode "might" be able to leverage the cardinality, but that doesn't apply here, and this doesn't have the capability)

If you just indicate "single", does that mean all rules (not already shared) go into the same instance? - kind of like share but with an empty name.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/13/26
- **Created**: 5/13/26
- **Description**: The target List Mode has this set of values: first,share,last,single

https://hl7.org/fhir/codesystem-map-target-list-mode.html

The share was underdocumented (practically not at all) - that should be documented and the grammar updated. But at least is implemented, and after reverse engineering and testing things out makes sense.

The first, last and single are not implemented and don't make any sense. Can we either deprecate/remove these, or explain what they are, and implement them.

(I'd prefer to just deprecate the map target list mode, and just keep the share keyword/identifier
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57219
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureMap
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Unresolved
- **Status**: Submitted
- **Summary**: Target List Mode first/last/single don't make sense
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57219

## Comments

### 1. Brian Postlethwaite - 5/13/26
Security: Public

Also, what does this text mean? "up to the first common n items, then create new ones" where is the "n" defined? (nothing in the fml or structuremap formats)

(the source list mode "might" be able to leverage the cardinality, but that doesn't apply here, and this doesn't have the capability)

If you just indicate "single", does that mean all rules (not already shared) go into the same instance? - kind of like share but with an empty name.

