# FHIR-44608: Clarify use of deprecated extensions, etc.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/30/24
- **Description**: Provide additional clarity around cross version use of extensions. For example, if the ability to convey some information was found to be lacking in FHIR R4 and an extension added, then the element was integrated in R5, I presume the extension would be deprecated. However, that extension is still the correct way to convey that information in R4, and so the deprecation should not apply to R4 implementations, only R5.

Conversely, if an element is core in R4, but moved to an extension in R5, then it seems to be improper to use that extension in R4.

Guidance should be provided around such use of extensions across versions, or additional clarity provided for cross-version IGs so the R4 and R5 extensions IG can reflect different statuses or content.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44608
- **Related Page(s)**: Extension Registry
- **Related URL**: https://hl7.org/fhir/extensions/extension-registry.html
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add the following text in a sub-section under inter-version extensions.

It is possible that an extension defined for use in a particular FHIR release (e.g. R4) could be superseded by the introduction of that same functionality in a future version of FHIR (e.g. R5) and an automatic inter-version extension becoming available with the publication of that newer release.  There are some guidelines to follow in this situation:
 # There is no requirement that the previously valid R4 extension be deprecated.  (In fact, if the extension was published as part of the R4 specification, there's no practical mechanism to mark the extension as deprecated if we wanted to.)
 # R4 extensions published in an IG *could* be deprecated in a future version of the IG if the publishers of the IG decided it was advantageous for the community to move to the inter-version extension.   Switching from one extension to another would be a breaking change and would require justification.  For example:

 * 
 ** the inter-version extension provides better support for inter-version compatibility
 ** the inter-version extension provides additional functionality that is desirable in the newer version of the IG.

Such an IG SHOULD allow both the old extension and the new inter-version extension to be transmitted for a period of time for compatibility reasons and to reduce the pain of the breaking change.

3. if you're supporting a multi-version IG (of which the extensions IG is the only current example), it is possible to mark an extension as being deprecated "as of" a particular FHIR release, meaning it ceases to be an appropriate extension for that release or higher.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Clarify use of deprecated extensions, etc.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44608

## Comments

_No comments in export._
