# FHIR-46364: Extension.url and value should be marked as "in summary"

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 7/10/24
- **Description**: In the definition of our datatypes and resources, we have taken care to mark `modifierExtension` as "in summary" and `extension` to not be in summary, which makes sense. However, in the Extension datatype itself `url` and `value` are not marked as "in summary", which would mean no information about the extension will be serialized.

This seems to be incorrect, more so because other complex datatypes do have their elements marked as "in summary".
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46364
- **Related Page(s)**: Extensibility
- **Reporter**: Ewout Kramer
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Mark url and value elements of {{Extension}} as {{isSummary = true}} to match with other datatypes.

The {{comments}} of {{ElementDefinition.isSummary}} need to be updated to clarify that moving _between_ resource and datatype definition does not promote {{isSummary}} from their contents. I.e. (bolding added to note change only, not to be included in spec):

Some resources include a set of simple metadata, and some very large data. This element is used to reduce the quantity of data returned in searches. Note that servers may pre-cache summarized resources for optimal performance. When a request is made with _summary=true, serializers only include elements marked as 'isSummary = true'. With a few exceptions (listed below), all datatype properties are included in the summary form. In resource and datatype definitions, if an element has a descendant *within the same StructureDefinition* marked as isSummary=true or if it satisfies both of the following conditions, it must be marked as isSummary=true:

is at the root or has a parent that is 'mustSupport'
has a minimum cardinality of 1 or is a modifier element
The following datatype properties are exceptions, and are not marked as isSummary:
 * Attachment.data
 * Signature.data, Signature.targetFormat, Signature.sigFormat
 * Narrative.status, Narrative.div
 * SampledData.data.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Extension.url and value should be marked as "in summary"
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46364

## Comments

_No comments in export._
