# FHIR-50901: Restructure TestPlan to accommodate for structure currently in TestCases

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Note that continuing the use of TestPlan will limit the ability to backport this content "nicely" into R5.

Suggest discussing naming before applying this ticket.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/15/25
- **Created**: 5/15/25
- **Description**: The initial design of TestPlan addressed the same uses

	Development/unit testing
	Connectathon-like testing
	Certification testing



 

In different tools and test definition languages (GITB, Gherkin, ..)

These seem to be covered with TestCases - with the TestCases seemingly having a more comprehensive and efficient structure.

Suggest to rework TestPlan to give it the same structure (adapting when needed) as TestCases:

https://build.fhir.org/ig/FHIR/fhir-tools-ig/StructureDefinition-TestCases.html
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50901
- **Related Artifact(s)**: TestPlan
- **Reporter**: Jose Costa-Teixeira
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Propose moving the content from CI build of [TestCases|https://build.fhir.org/ig/FHIR/fhir-tools-ig/StructureDefinition-TestCases.html] in the Tooling IG, which is represented by [StructureDefinition-TestCases.json|https://github.com/FHIR/fhir-tools-ig/blob/a33330663c97bfa949ab1d8e464d8ae77ff6cfed/input/resources/StructureDefinition-TestCases.json] in git.

The updated structure represents improvements that were necessary over the prior version have been initially tested for cases in FHIR core and terminology.

The current {{TestPlan}} resource has been confirmed not to be sufficient for use and is not believed to be in production.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Restructure TestPlan to accommodate for structure currently in TestCases
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50901

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 5/15/25
Security: Public

Note that continuing the use of TestPlan will limit the ability to backport this content "nicely" into R5.

Suggest discussing naming before applying this ticket.

