# FHIR-45310: Add reference to x-request-id to OperationOutcome narrative

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Josh Lamb
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: As an alternative suggestion, formalizing and adding more explicit usage instructions to the following extension on OperationOutcome.Issue may meet the same need: 

https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-operationoutcome-message-id.html
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 4/18/24
- **Created**: 4/18/24
- **Description**: Two possible approaches to address the underlying need in this tracker. 

Underlying need: 

When an OperationOutcome is received there is a need to convey an identifier from the recipient of the OperationOutcome to the sender. Commonly there are processes in place where a client will encounter an issue or have a question related to a specific error or operation. An identifier can be used during the support process to locate specific logs/audit-trails related to the OperationOutcome.

Option 1: 

Include a dedicated identifier on OperationOutcome.issue that can be used to convey an identifier to help locate logs/audit-trails related to the OperationOutcome issue, as indicated in the comments by Cooper Thompson. 

 

Option 2: 

Can we consider adding narrative to OperationOutcome that recommends use of the custom headers "X-Request-Id" and "X-Correlation-Id"? 

Calling out "X-Request-Id" and "X-Correlation-Id" in the narrative for OperationOutcome may help increase utilization/awareness of these headers, especially when an OperationOutcome is delivered as a result of an error. 

 



Tag
Direction
MDN
RFC
Notes


X-Request-Id
both
 
 
A unique id to for the request/response assigned by either client or server. Request: assigned by the client. Response: assigned by the server


X-Correlation-Id
both
 
 
A client assigned request id echoed back in the response





Source: 

https://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#custom
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-45310
- **Reporter**: Josh Lamb
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add reference to x-request-id to OperationOutcome narrative

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-45310

## Comments

### 1. Josh Lamb - 4/18/24
Security: Public

As an alternative suggestion, formalizing and adding more explicit usage instructions to the following extension on OperationOutcome.Issue may meet the same need: 

https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-operationoutcome-message-id.html

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 4/18/24
Security: Public

That is not the right extension for the data item described above.

### 3. Josh Lamb - 4/18/24
Security: Public

Edited the tracker. Thanks for the feedback.

### 4. Cooper Thompson - 4/18/24
Security: Public

I'd rather have an identifier in the resource itself than in the HTTP header.  Mainly for a bunch of practical reasons like accessibility in logs and easy copy pasting.  Analysts that aren't super technical may only see the body and copy/paste that into a support ticket.   Having to do another go-round to get them to pull headers (which might not be accessible after the fact, in which case you need to reproduce the issue again) is just that many more steps when troubleshooting.

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/29/24
Security: Public

From call discussion, we don't believe X-Request-Id is appropriate because this isn't a request/response situation.

We're considering introducing a new 0..1 OperationOutcome.issue.instanceId, short="Unique id for issue occurrence" with definition "A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the issue in the source system".  requirements "This may allow tying a reported issue to a record in the source system's audit log.  Included for traceability issues".

Discussion of whether this should be a core element or an extension.

