# FHIR-53569: Custom SearchParameter codes beginning with "-" cause potential future issue with sorting.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: The hyphen ("-") character is recommended as a prefix for custom search parameters to avoid collisions with future matching parameter names, but consider the following:

	User implements a custom search parameter on Encounter "-end-date". 
	Clients of user's FHIR implementation search for Encounters, sorted by their end date, using


Encounter?_sort=-end-date

to sort Encounters by their end dates in ascending order, and 


Encounter?_sort=--end-date

 to sort Encounters by their end dates is descending order.
	FHIR specification implements "end-date"
	Searches made by clients for "Encounter?_sort=-end-date" are now in the wrong (or an unpredictable) order.



One could make the argument that upgrading FHIR server versions should be done such that clients are migrated to avoid this behaviour. If that is the case, there is no need to stipulate that the server should prefix custom search parameter codes with a hyphen. 

Suggested solution options:

	recommend a different prefix character
	do not stipulate that the server should prefix custom search parameters
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53569
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Reporter**: LeeCampbell
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will change "Servers SHOULD define custom search parameters with codes starting with a hyphen ("-") character to ensure that the names they choose do not clash with future parameters defined by this specification."

to

"Servers and IG authors SHOULD define custom search parameters with codes starting with a prefix defining the scope of the defining organization.  Such a prefix SHALL NOT start with characters other than alphanumeric characters (e.g. '-', '~', etc.), as other characters either already have or may in the future have meaning within the search syntax.  However, this is not sufficient to guarantee disambiguation - see the rules in [Search Tests]."

In the Search Tests section, we will add a new paragraph following the one starting "Search inputs are dereferenced".

"Because the interpretation of search names can vary from server to server based on their CapabilityStatements, clients that are unfamiliar with a target server's search naming conventions SHALL query the CapabilityStatement and adjust the search names used in their query to align with the server's conventions."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Custom SearchParameter codes beginning with "-" cause potential future issue with sorting.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53569

## Comments

_No comments in export._
