# FHIR-54473: FHIR Mapping Language not ready for normative

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: 2026.01.28 - FHIR-I WGM Wednesday Q4 Discussion

	Discussion around the state of FML - feeling is that it is promising but not quite finished/ready for normative.
	There is a question on whether this is required to be in FHIR Core (e.g., CQL is external).
	There was discussion around the version-conversion and state.  Noted that it will do most of the work, but there are a lot of places where FML is not likely to be suitable (e.g., decision trees where provider policy needs to be applied).
	Note that there are uses in production already.
	Concerns around the round-trip-ability of FML and StructureMap already (e.g., StructureMap extensions disappear moving to FML, FML comments disappear moving to StructureMap, etc. - see other tickets).
	Concern is around timelines and attention/focus that we can spend on this relative to the rest of R6.
	General consensus is that people would like to see this have more time and iteration.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/28/26
- **Created**: 1/16/26
- **Description**: the FHIR Mapping Language has many issues and show be moved into it's own incubator project, or better still seperate specification, just as FHIRPath is.

	StructureMap should remain in the normative package though.
	The incubator can describe how the various versions of FHIR map to the FML grammar/engine - just as fhirpath does.
	or even more ideally, as an external implementation guide, like FHIRPath/CQL, as it is definitely equivalent to both of these.
 
I'll log seperate issues for the specifics
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-54473
- **Related Page(s)**: Mapping Language
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: The FML lanugauge, grammar, and tutorial will be moved into an incubator IG to iterate and complete the specification on the condition that the TSC approves publishing the updated content on the basis of the existing FHIR ballots.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: FHIR Mapping Language not ready for normative
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-54473

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

2026.01.28 - FHIR-I WGM Wednesday Q4 Discussion

	Discussion around the state of FML - feeling is that it is promising but not quite finished/ready for normative.
	There is a question on whether this is required to be in FHIR Core (e.g., CQL is external).
	There was discussion around the version-conversion and state.  Noted that it will do most of the work, but there are a lot of places where FML is not likely to be suitable (e.g., decision trees where provider policy needs to be applied).
	Note that there are uses in production already.
	Concerns around the round-trip-ability of FML and StructureMap already (e.g., StructureMap extensions disappear moving to FML, FML comments disappear moving to StructureMap, etc. - see other tickets).
	Concern is around timelines and attention/focus that we can spend on this relative to the rest of R6.
	General consensus is that people would like to see this have more time and iteration.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 1/28/26
Security: Public

Asking for feedback based on the comments in the ticket from WGM discussion.  Thanks!

