# FHIR-50574: Reference Type is more useful if reference will or won't be resolved? Needing clarification in the spec

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 5/1/25
- **Description**: "Note that in practice, it is often not necessary to know what the type of the target resource is, unless it's going to be resolved anyway, so in many cases, specifying the type of the target resource is unnecessary."

This sentence reads to me like 'the type is necessary only if the reference will be resolved', but the paragraph above states "In principle, the type of the target reference can be determined by resolving the reference (using the approaches described below), and examining the content returned to determine the type; for this reason, specifying the type is almost always duplication of information." 

In practice, the reference type could influence whether or not the resource is resolved in the first place, so wouldn't the type be more useful if the resource isn't going to resolved?

I think this could be clarified by adding an "isn't" in the sentence, so it says this instead. If I'm misinterpreting the wording, it might be worth some clarifications anyway.

"Note that in practice, it is often not necessary to know what the type of the target resource is, unless it isn't going to be resolved anyway, so in many cases, specifying the type of the target resource is unnecessary."
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50574
- **Related Page(s)**: References
- **Related Section(s)**: 2.1.3.0.2 Target Type
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/references.html#type
- **Reporter**: JuhiPatel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Change
{quote}
Note that in practice, it is often not necessary to know what the type of the target resource is, unless it's going to be resolved anyway, so in many cases, specifying the type of the target resource is unnecessary.
{quote}

to
{quote}
Note that if a literal reference to a FHIR resource is used, it is duplicative to include the {{type}} in the reference.  However, in cases such as when using {{Reference.identifier}} including the {{type}} is useful.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Reference Type is more useful if reference will or won't be resolved? Needing clarification in the spec
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50574

## Comments

_No comments in export._
