# FHIR-57563: Need to support pointing to images/audio clips/etc. for references

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 6/8/26
- **Description**: When you have a Reference to a resource (Request, report, etc.), sometimes all you have is a media representation - a scanned fax, an email, an audio recording, etc. 

There have been a number of proposals asking for DocumentReference to be added as an allowed target for a wide range of Reference elements.  However, this isn't scalable.

We should define the following extension:
media-representation 0..1 Reference(Binary|DocumentReference|Media&#91;for the versions it existed in&#93;)

context: canonical|Reference

Definition: A media representation of the target resource of a reference or canonical

Requirements: There are some situations where the system does not have (and cannot have) a formal resource representation of a concept, but do have a media representation such as a scanned fax, an audio clip, etc.  This allows referring to that media structure.

Comment: It is better practice to have an actual resource with the minimum discrete data present.  The media can be referenced in that resource's narrative.  However, not all systems will be able (technically or by policy) to create such a resource instance.  This extension provides a solution in those circumstances.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-57563
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Need to support pointing to images/audio clips/etc. for references
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-57563

## Comments

_No comments in export._
