# FHIR-53061: List.source needs to be 0..*

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 10/6/25
- **Description**: The List.source element now supports multiple agent types, but does not support multiple entries. Thus when a Practitioner and Organization are known, this can't be saved. Yes the PractitionerRole is available, but this only works where this resource exists. There are also other cases where multiples are needed. 

Please allow .source to be 0..*
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-53061
- **Related Artifact(s)**: List
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/list.html
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add 'contributors' 0..* with type of Reference and the same targets as source.

short: 'who helps maintain the list'

definition: "Entities who have the ability to adjust the contents of the list"

comments: "If both 'source' and 'contributors' are present, then 'source' has primary responsibility.  If contributors are present without source, then all contributors have shared responsibility.   The source SHOULD NOT be also listed as a contributor. To indicate a practitioner working for an organization, use PractitionerRole, even if as a contained resource rather than having separate repetitions of this element for Practitioner and Organization."

Will define a SearchParameter for this element as well as a combo search parameter that looks at both source and contributor.
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: List.source needs to be 0..*
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-53061

## Comments

_No comments in export._
