# FHIR-47558: Provide value set, discussion and examples for NaN, +inf, etc.

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 9/12/24
- **Description**: There doesn't appear to be a way to express non-standard quantities using the Quantity data type. This includes:

	Not a number (NaN)
	positive and negative infinity
	"trace" amount
	"sufficient" amount
	and perhaps others



The suggestion was made to allow the value to be a choice of either Quantity or CodeableConcept to enable this. An alternate would be a standard extension(s?) for these concepts to be applied to a Quantity. In either case, it seems a standard vocabulary for these concepts would be helpful.

Another approach suggested was to use Data absent reason, however this doesn't feel right as the data isn't actually missing, it just isn't a value that is currently expressable in Quantity.

Please define a standard approach for handling these kinds of values, and include appropriate discusssion in the spec, along with the necessary artifacts including examples.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47558
- **Related Page(s)**: Datatypes
- **Reporter**: Elliot Silver
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Will add a 'Note' section on Quantity that says:

"If there is a need to convey exceptional values such as Not a Number (NaN), 'trace', 'sufficient quantity', etc., this should be done using a coded data type such as CodeableConcept, drawing on codes such as those found <a href="https://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem-data-absent-reason.html">here</a> or <a href="https://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem-v3-NullFlavor.html">here</a>."

It's up to the work groups to decide where such values should be allowed and to standardize on what concepts make sense (and whether the list should be extensible or not).  Feel free to submit change requests if you feel CodeableConcept is missing in places where it should exist.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Provide value set, discussion and examples for NaN, +inf, etc.
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47558

## Comments

_No comments in export._
