# FHIR-51130: Clarify conditional reference rules in transactions

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 6/17/25
- **Description**: In Resolving references in Bundles, the following text could use additional clarity.

Resolving conditional references. If the reference occurs in a transaction Bundle and the reference.value is a conditional reference (e.g. "http://example.org/base/Patient?identifier=1234"):


	Perform the &#91;search&#93; specified in the conditional reference on the server.
	
		If the search succeeds with a single resource, the resolution succeeds (and ends) here.
		If the search succeeds with multiple matching resources, resolution fails (and ends) here. An error SHOULD be raised.
	
	
	Otherwise the resolution fails (and ends) here.



Per a discussion here on Zulip, we feel that there should be additional clarity around the resolution process.

Specifically, is conditional resolution done:

	against the server contents,
	within the bundle,
	both (bundle first), or
	both (server first)?



Please add clarification text and ensure an example covers this scenario (see ticket FHIR-40498 regarding adding an example).
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51130
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Related Page(s)**: REST (http)
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Will change:

"
 * Perform the [search] specified in the conditional reference on the server.
 ** If the search succeeds with a single resource, the resolution succeeds (and ends) here.
 ** If the search succeeds with multiple matching resources, resolution fails (and ends) here. An error SHOULD be raised.
 * Otherwise the resolution fails (and ends) here."

to

"
 * Logically perform all creates, updates and deletes as defined in the Bundle.  (If this involves physically performing the creates, logical references will need to be removed or, potentially based on cardinality or business rules, replaced with a valid temporary reference.)
 * Perform the [search] specified in the conditional reference on the server.
 ** If the search succeeds with a single resource, the resolution succeeds (and ends) here.
 ** If the search succeeds with multiple matching resources, resolution fails (and ends) here. An error SHOULD be raised.
 * Otherwise the resolution fails (and ends) here.

NOTE: It is sometimes not safe to perform resolution of conditional references within the Bundle because in some cases there may be multiple matches which, once the data hits the server, will turn into a single match due to mutually exclusive conditional create/conditional update rules."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify conditional reference rules in transactions
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51130

## Comments

_No comments in export._
