# FHIR-51184: Async polling response HTTP codes are problematic

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: The two tickets (51183 and 51184) cover the same content, but one is in the Async page of the core spec, while the other is for the Bulk Export IG.
- **Assignee**: Gino Canessa
- **Comments**: 6/20/25
- **Created**: 6/20/25
- **Description**: In Bulk Export, when polling for the status of a job, servers are instructed to return HTTP status codes based on the job instead of the HTTP request.

According to RFC9110 - Status Codes, the HTTP status code is the result of a specific HTTP request, not any underlying process.

The incorrect use of status codes is a problem because it creates ambiguity between the request and the job. For example:

	_status/1 =&gt; 404: async job couldn't find the file, or the job id doesn't exist?
	_status/1 =&gt; 401: async job wasn't authenticated, or client isn't authorized?
	_status/1 =&gt; 500: problem with the call to fetch the job status, or a problem with the job?
	_status/1 =&gt; 503: is the job status service down, or is the job processing service down?



Additionally, by returning failed status codes for HTTP requests that themselves have been processed successfully has impact on SLAs for customers (e.g., someone testing options in bulk export can result in their account failing to meet SLA).

Recommendation is to properly separate the status request from the job status. Specifically, the HTTP GET to the status should describe HTTP status code responses according to the status of that HTTP request. The content of the request should contain information about progress, completion, and/or errors.
- **Grouping**: [MovingToGuide]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51184
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: Async polling response HTTP codes are problematic

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51184

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 6/20/25
Security: Public

The two tickets (51183 and 51184) cover the same content, but one is in the Async page of the core spec, while the other is for the Bulk Export IG.

