# FHIR-52942: Additional clarification for chained search filters

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/10/25
- **Created**: 9/23/25
- **Description**: From discussion on Zulip ( https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/channel/179166-implementers/topic/Basic.20Question/near/478559541 ), the process for when evaluations happen and how the results are joined could use additional clarification.

The specific clarification needed there was about evaluation of multiple search parameters that chain across the same element that has a cardinality greater than one.
 
For example, a search has two criteria: general-practitioner.name=Joe and general-practitioner.address-state=MN.
Since Patient.generalPractitioner is a repeating element, the process is:

	find the set of Patients that have a generalPractitioner with a name matching "Joe"
	find the set of Patients that have a generalPractitioner with an address matching "MN"
	join the sets with and logic at the root level.



The tricky part is that a Patient might have a GP named Joe that lives in California and a different GP named Jane that lives in Minnesota. That patient satisfies both of the requirements, even though there is no single practitioner for the patient that satisfies both conditions.

Propose changing the text:

may return Patients cared for by Joe from CA and Jane from MN: no one practitioner need satisfy both conditions. E.g. the chains are evaluated separately. For use cases where the joins must be evaluated in groups, there are either Composite search parameters, or the _filter parameter.

to:

is asking for Patients that have any general practitioner with 'Joe' in their name and that have any general practitioner that resides in Minnesota.  Each chained parameter is evaluated individually, so a Patient that sees 'Dr. Joe' in California and 'Dr. Jane' in Minnesota matches.

Following the logic, an implementation will:

	find the set of Patients that have a generalPractitioner with a name matching "Joe"
	find the set of Patients that have a generalPractitioner with an address matching "MN"
	join the two sets of results with and logic at the Patient level.



For use cases where the joins must be evaluated in groups, there are either Composite search parameters, or the _filter parameter.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-52942
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/search.html#chaining
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: Propose changing the text:
{quote}may return Patients cared for by Joe from CA and Jane from MN: no one practitioner need satisfy both conditions. E.g. the chains are evaluated separately. For use cases where the joins must be evaluated in groups, there are either [Composite|https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#composite] search parameters, or the [_filter|https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#filter] parameter.
{quote}
to:
{quote}is asking for Patients that have _any_ general practitioner with 'Joe' in their name and that have _any_ general practitioner that resides in Minnesota. Each chained parameter is evaluated individually, so a Patient that sees 'Dr. Joe' in California and 'Dr. Jane' in Minnesota matches.

Following the logic, an implementation will:
 * find the set of Patients that have a {{generalPractitioner}} with a name matching "Joe"
 * find the set of Patients that have a {{generalPractitioner}} with an address matching "MN"
 * join the two sets of results with {{and}} logic at the Patient level.

For use cases where the joins must be evaluated in groups, implementers can use either [Composite|https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#composite] search parameters or the [_filter|https://hl7.org/fhir/search.html#filter] parameter.
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Additional clarification for chained search filters
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-52942

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

