# FHIR-47134: Provide Guidance on the expected Resource status

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Rosemary Hofstede
- **Created**: 9/6/24
- **Description**: FHIR defines the following names for functional lists:

$current-problem

$current-medications

$current-allergies

$current-drug-allergies
 

For each of these please define the 'status' you would expect a server to include. For *

	Condition.clinicalStatus - are all appropriate?
	MedicationState.statement.status - recorded? 
	....



When I read this I fears systems will construct quite different lists without additional guidance. At minimum, provide link to status elements.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47134
- **Related Page(s)**: Life Cycle
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/6.0.0-ballot2/lifecycle.html
- **Reporter**: Brett Marquard
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: We will add language that says "The choice of whether a resource is included in a 'current' list is not solely driven by status.  The period when a record is considered still 'current' may vary based on business rules.  For example, a MedicationRequest or MedicationStatement that was only recently changed to 'completed' might still remain as a 'current' medication.  Medications with a longer half-life or where they are community-based rather than in-patient medications might remain on the 'current' list for longer. 

Different systems may have differing rules for when a particular instance should appear in the $current list.  (This is one of the reasons for having an operation rather than merely querying based on status.)"

We will put these paragraphs right before "FHIR defines the following names for functional lists"
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: Provide Guidance on the expected Resource status
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47134

## Comments

_No comments in export._
