# FHIR-51099: Bundle.signature should be 0..*

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Eric Haas
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Multiple signatures can be implemented in two primary ways, depending on the use case:

	Simple Co-Signing: Use multiple signatures in Bundle.signature when multiple signers approve, verify, etc the same content. This approach is straightforward, as all signers endorse identical content in a single signature process.




	Complex Signature Scenarios: For use cases requiring individual verification of distinct content per signer (e.g., counter-signatures), leverage Provenance-based Signatures. This method supports explicit tracking and verifying of the exact content each signer approve, verify, etc.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/23/25
- **Created**: 6/13/25
- **Description**: The Bundle.signature element is defined as 0..1; This is not a problem for a simple transaction, as the creator of the bundle would know the mime-type that the recipient wants. So this is likely okay for a Search Result, Message, or Operation. In these use-cases the creator has good evidence of the desired signature canonicalized mime-type. Thus in these cases there is little likelihood that the .signature element is likely to have been created in the way the receiver wants it.

However in the case of Document Bundles, or other Bundles that are persisted in Bundle form; it is possible that a recipient wants the signature in a different mime-type. The way to support this is for the Bundle creator to have attached two .signature elements, one for two mime-types.

Also, with Documents Bundles, there is the likelihood that it is desirable to have multiple types of signatures, or signatures by different people. These are all supported by multiple .signature elements

Request that the .signature element be changed to 0..*

If this is not possible, then these other use-cases could/would use the Provenance resource.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-51099
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Reporter**: John Moehrke
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Bundle.signature should be 0..*
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-51099

## Comments

### 1. Eric Haas - 7/23/25
Security: Public

Multiple signatures can be implemented in two primary ways, depending on the use case:

	Simple Co-Signing: Use multiple signatures in Bundle.signature when multiple signers approve, verify, etc the same content. This approach is straightforward, as all signers endorse identical content in a single signature process.




	Complex Signature Scenarios: For use cases requiring individual verification of distinct content per signer (e.g., counter-signatures), leverage Provenance-based Signatures. This method supports explicit tracking and verifying of the exact content each signer approve, verify, etc.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 10/31/25
Security: Public

deprecated already

