# FHIR-46620: Clarify or Correct StructureDefinition context of Resource

## Metadata

- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Created**: 8/13/24
- **Description**: In StructureDefinition.context when you have a type of element, a valid and common value for expression is Resource.

Unfortunately, Resource does not actually allow extensions - DomainResource does.

I assume the ship has sailed on forcing people to use DomainResource as the context, but as the specs do not clarify a filter on Resource, the context can be read in invalid ways (e.g., trying to put an extension on a Bundle). 

Do we:

	Document use of Resource as an allowed context with caveats (e.g., clarifying that Resource does not allow extensions and that using the value actually means any Resource that is a valid context - i.e., DomainResource)?
	Introduce a validator warning saying that they SHOULD be changed to DomainResource and fix them going forward?
	Both?



See Zulip for discussion.
- **Grouping**: [WGM]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46620
- **Related Artifact(s)**: StructureDefinition
- **Related Page(s)**: Defining Extensions
- **Reporter**: Gino Canessa
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Improve documentation of extension context, including at [https://build.fhir.org/defining-extensions.html#context]  and [https://build.fhir.org/valueset-extension-context-type.html#expansion] (which has significant overlap) to

1. indicate that when Resource appears as extension context, it refers to any Resource where extensions are allowed, i.e. DomainResource and its descendants.

2. make other non-substantive improvements to the definitions

---

Discussion: Should we encourage new extensions to use DomainResource instead of Resource? Maybe, but we shouldn't prevent them from using Resource... And we want people to be able to define extensions "anywhere they're allowed", including hypothetical future sibling classes to DomainResource. So using Resource might be OK.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify or Correct StructureDefinition context of Resource
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46620

## Comments

_No comments in export._
