# FHIR-50914: Clarify optionality of SubscriptionStatus.subscription reference in case of implicit subscriptions

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Marc Sandberg
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Proposed text would be:

In some workflows, particularly those involving implicit or server-controlled subscriptions, the Subscription resource may not be externally accessible or shared. In such cases, the Reference may represent an identifier or placeholder known only to the sender. Implementers SHOULD be aware that resolution of this reference might not be possible on the receiving end.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/15/25
- **Created**: 5/15/25
- **Description**: The current definition of the subscription element in SubscriptionStatus marks the reference as required. This is problematic in scenarios where the notification is the result of an implicit subscription, such as when the event source chooses to send a notification to a third party without a prior explicit Subscription resource being shared.

We suggest clarifying that in such cases, the reference may not resolve to an accessible Subscription resource, and instead may refer to an identifier known only to the sender. This supports use cases involving implicit or server-internal subscriptions where the recipient does not possess a canonical reference to a shared Subscription resource.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-50914
- **Reporter**: Marc Sandberg
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify optionality of SubscriptionStatus.subscription reference in case of implicit subscriptions

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-50914

## Comments

### 1. Marc Sandberg - 5/15/25
Security: Public

Proposed text would be:

In some workflows, particularly those involving implicit or server-controlled subscriptions, the Subscription resource may not be externally accessible or shared. In such cases, the Reference may represent an identifier or placeholder known only to the sender. Implementers SHOULD be aware that resolution of this reference might not be possible on the receiving end.

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

