# FHIR-46536: FHIR IG Publishing and Tooling - defaulting to CI Build version vs. Current STU version

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: https://github.com/HL7/fhir-ig-publisher/issues/947
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 8/27/24
- **Created**: 8/2/24
- **Description**: As FHIR matures, the community of engaged users is changing ... we currently see more implementers searching for an IG (via Google, or other method) - only to find a generic URL like: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/us/core/

The current FHIR IG CI Build process results in many cases to be the detail page displayed when being searched.

This is to some degree causing a level of confusion, and misdirection for the implementation community .. who are only now learning about FHIR.

We have seen a number of implementers try and start to implement US Core from the CI-Build page ... only to learn later that they were supposed to implement US Core version 3.1.1, or now 6.10.  

While going to the CI-Build is convenient and helps a number of us Spec/Standards geeks, as is often the case it is what we are currently working on ... we know the Spec and understand how to navigate the History/FHIR pages to arrive at the CI-Build.  Our new FHIR community members may not.

Suggestion/Recommendation (1) - We should consider updating the FHIR Publishing process to allow an IG Owner/Stakeholder or IG Lead to actively select which history version is most relevant to the community - as default (and avoid assuming the CI-Build in most cases). 

If the IG has multiple active versions to choose from - such as US Core ... then the IG Publisher should prompt the user - with a list of choices, and explanations. 

I believe it is time we started to change the way we think of our FHIR Community, and move to the perspective of more supporting our implementers.

Also, we should/could more "clearly" identify an IG version as "Under Construction", is it our intent to allow an IG under active development to automatically inherit the maturity of previous IG's (even before it is balloted, or advanced through our standard QA processes).  Suggestion/Recommendation (2) - We reset an IG Status and Maturity until the IG is ready to published as an official STU version.

 

Apologies: but, the STU Note seen on some IG, like US Core - does not avoid this situation I am describing.

PS: This ticket was created at the direction of Lloyd McKenzie
- **Grouping**: [Block-Vote-6]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46536
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ImplementationGuide
- **Related Page(s)**: Directory of Published Versions
- **Related Section(s)**: IG Publishing
- **Related URL**: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/us/core/
- **Reporter**: Mario Hyland
- **Resolution**: Not Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Resolved - change required
- **Summary**: FHIR IG Publishing and Tooling - defaulting to CI Build version vs. Current STU version

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46536

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 8/27/24
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir-ig-publisher/issues/947

