# FHIR-44489: Significant usage notes needed

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Proposed text of:
"Example Scenarios help to make the expected behavior of a collection of systems adhering to a guide more concrete.  It allows the author to say "Imagine you have a patient in situation X and Y needs to happen.  This is what the exchanges between the various imaginary systems might look like for that specific patient."

Creating examples is a lot of work, and creating ExampleScenarios is often an order of magnitude more work, but being able to see the resulting diagrams of flows and click through to see the specific instances that are being exchanged can be extremely helpful in solidifying implementer understanding of the 'workflow' implied by an implementation guide.

In addition to the examples provided in the examples tab, you can also see some useful examples of ExampleScenario in the &#91;Physical Activity implementation guide&#93;(https://hl7.org/fhir/us/physical-activity/STU1/artifacts.html#7)."
is still insufficient.

There should be discussion of how the sample data is linked in, how the steps are enumerated and linked, etc. It is challenging to understand how to use this resource simply from the definition of the elements. The discussion should probably be closer in scope to another complex resource like Questionnaire.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 2/12/24
- **Created**: 1/22/24
- **Description**: Significant usage notes should be added to describe how this resource should be used.

(Comment 22 - imported by: Ron G. Parker)
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-44489
- **Related Artifact(s)**: ExampleScenario
- **Related Page(s)**: (NA)
- **Related Section(s)**: 12.32.4
- **Reporter**: Ron G. Parker
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Significant usage notes needed
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-44489

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 2/12/24
Security: Public

Proposed text of:
"Example Scenarios help to make the expected behavior of a collection of systems adhering to a guide more concrete.  It allows the author to say "Imagine you have a patient in situation X and Y needs to happen.  This is what the exchanges between the various imaginary systems might look like for that specific patient."

Creating examples is a lot of work, and creating ExampleScenarios is often an order of magnitude more work, but being able to see the resulting diagrams of flows and click through to see the specific instances that are being exchanged can be extremely helpful in solidifying implementer understanding of the 'workflow' implied by an implementation guide.

In addition to the examples provided in the examples tab, you can also see some useful examples of ExampleScenario in the &#91;Physical Activity implementation guide&#93;(https://hl7.org/fhir/us/physical-activity/STU1/artifacts.html#7)."
is still insufficient.

There should be discussion of how the sample data is linked in, how the steps are enumerated and linked, etc. It is challenging to understand how to use this resource simply from the definition of the elements. The discussion should probably be closer in scope to another complex resource like Questionnaire.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/6/25
Security: Public

Git master c9af65797f

