# FHIR-43295: Clarify that document and message "must link" requirements are met through RESTful references

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Elliot Silver
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: I presume the intent is to only require that references to resources in the Bundle have to be RESTful; references outside the Bundle would have no such requirement.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 11/29/23
- **Created**: 11/29/23
- **Description**: This has long been a presumption, but isn't explicitly stated.  Allowing any other type of reference significantly increases complexity for software processing documents and messages (and breaks most existing software).  As well, I can't think of a good reason to allow multiple reference resolution mechanisms in a document (and resolution via business identifier is tricky and often requires business knowledge, making it unrreliable).

See discussion here: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/207835-IPS/topic/A.20referencing.20case.20of.20a.20patient.20summary.20document.20instance.20in
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-43295
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Bundle
- **Reporter**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Resolution Description**: On the messaging page:
 * Will change "The bundle SHALL NOT include resources that do have references (by [Reference|https://build.fhir.org/references.html#Reference] or [canonical|https://build.fhir.org/references.html#canonical] links) to the {{MessageHeader"}} to "The bundle SHALL NOT include resources that are not part of a connected graph of RESTful references (i.e. using Reference.reference, canonical or a URI) that includes the {{MessageHeader. }}I.e. It must be possible to traverse the references between resources in such a way that all resources are linked.

On the document page:
 * Will change "The supporting information: Any resources that are part of the graph of resources that reference or are referenced from the composition set, either directly or indirectly (e.g. recursively in a chain)" to 
"The supporting information: Any resources that are part of the graph of resources that reference or are referenced from the composition set, either directly or indirectly (e.g. recursively in a chain).  Such references SHALL use Reference.reference, canonical or a URI."
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify that document and message "must link" requirements are met through RESTful references
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-43295

## Comments

### 1. Elliot Silver - 11/29/23
Security: Public

I presume the intent is to only require that references to resources in the Bundle have to be RESTful; references outside the Bundle would have no such requirement.

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 11/29/23
Security: Public

Right.  The requirement that "all resources in the Bundle must be linked" would need to be met by RESTful references.  Stuff outside the Bundle could be referenced in whatever way you like.  And within the Bundle, if you wanted to include business identifier references too for some reason, that'd be fine.

