# FHIR-6859: 2015May sdc #76 - When will extensions move to core?

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Grahame Grieve
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: well, we are evaluating these things. Some will be moved into the registry when we have it, some will be moved to core, others will be moved to normative extensions, and some will remain under evaluation. Agree that we need to add a discussion of this on the extensions page.
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 5/10/15
- **Created**: 5/9/15
- **Description**: Proposed Wording: Note that, unlike in many other specifications, there can be no stigma associated with the use of extensions by any application, project, or standard - regardless of the institution or jurisdiction that uses or defines the extensions. The use of extensions is what allows the FHIR specification to retain a core simplicity for everyone.

         Comment:

         What does it take for an extension to be added to a resource. We are in DSTU2 and already have a lot of Patient and Observation extensions already. Should they be added to FHIR Normative 1? Are they forever extensions. Please explain if extensions are intended to permanent.
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-6859
- **Related Page(s)**: Extensibility
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/2015May/extensibility.html
- **Reporter**: James Kretz
- **Resolution**: Duplicate
- **Status**: Duplicate
- **Summary**: 2015May sdc #76 - When will extensions move to core?

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-6859

## Comments

### 1. Grahame Grieve - 5/10/15
Security: Public

well, we are evaluating these things. Some will be moved into the registry when we have it, some will be moved to core, others will be moved to normative extensions, and some will remain under evaluation. Agree that we need to add a discussion of this on the extensions page.

### 2. Grahame Grieve - 5/10/15
Security: Public

well, we are evaluating these things. Some will be moved into the registry when we have it, some will be moved to core, others will be moved to normative extensions, and some will remain under evaluation. Agree that we need to add a discussion of this on the extensions page.

