# FHIR-14712: Add references to US Core usage - 2018-Jan Core #34

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Melva Peters
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: May 7, 2018: Rick Geimer/Sean McIlvenna: 7-0-0 - Considered for Future Use
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 1/8/19
- **Created**: 1/29/18
- **Description**: Existing Wording: usage info: insert a list of places where this extension is used

         Proposed Wording: Add US Core and US Meds

         Comment:

         Update where this extension is used: US FHIR Core, US Meds, other places?

         Summary:

         Add CapabilityStatement - search-parameter-combination examples
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-14712
- **Related Artifact(s)**: CapabilityStatement (Conformance)
- **Related URL**: http://hl7.org/fhir/2018Jan/extension-capabilitystatement-search-parameter-combination.html
- **Reporter**: Brett Marquard
- **Resolution**: Persuasive with Modification
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Add references to US Core usage - 2018-Jan Core #34

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-14712

## Comments

### 1. Melva Peters - 1/8/19
Security: Public

May 7, 2018: Rick Geimer/Sean McIlvenna: 7-0-0 - Considered for Future Use

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

Reverted previous resolution: Considered for Future Use made 2019-01-17 00:00:00.0 with vote Richard Ettema/Ron Shapiro: 8-0-1//(Impact: null; Category: Clarification; Version: null)//The FHIR core specification cannot reference content maintained in implementation guides as that content isn't available to the build.  In the future, the FHIR Registry might allow us to include a link that would point to all other places where a given artifact (e.g. an extension) is used.

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/30/23
Security: Public

R5 is now published.  This issue will need to be reconsidered as part of R6.

### 4. Lloyd McKenzie - 4/17/23
Security: Public

We don't want to manually maintain a list for each extension of where it's used.  However, what we currently see displayed:

"Usage info

Usage:

	This Extension is not used by any profiles in this Implementation Guide"



 

is not super-useful.  We should either:

	add a link that would take someone to a website on the package server that would let them see who uses it (maybe version-specific or FHIR-version-specific?)
	lookup information from the package server and render that as part of the publication process for the extension IG
	Remove the 'Usage' section from the extension IG because it's not useful.



Will wait to decide until Grahame Grieve is able to join us

### 5. Lloyd McKenzie - 5/1/23
Security: Public

One option is to link here: http://fhir.org/guides/stats2/structuredefinition-hl7.fhir.uv.cmi-cmi-effectivedatarequirements.html (or a prettified version of the same content).  Grahame's going to think about this, as well as the possibility of having a permalink

### 6. Corey Spears - 10/22/25
Security: Public

There have been several modifications in approach since this tickets was first written and later approved. This approach includes having a separate extensions pack IG. As noted in comments below, it is not terribly maintainable to have a full list of where the extension is used across all IGs withing the extension page itself. Instead there is a statistics site that includes this sort of information and much more. This seems to address the intent of the ticket and addresses the agreed upon disposition. Since the disposition, the wording has been updated, and it notes if the extension is not used in the extensions guide, but has a link to the stats page where its wider usage can be found (which, in this instance, includes US Core).

Here is the current extension page: https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-capabilitystatement-search-parameter-combination.html

It has a link to the stats usage page: https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-extensions/StructureDefinition-capabilitystatement-search-parameter-combination.html

### 7. Corey Spears - 10/22/25
Security: Public

stats usage page: https://packages2.fhir.org/xig/resource/hl7.fhir.uv.extensions%7Ccurrent/StructureDefinition/capabilitystatement-search-parameter-combination

