# FHIR-47344: Subscription - enpoint definition needs improvement

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Gino Canessa
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 3/31/25
- **Created**: 9/11/24
- **Description**: The current definition of the Subscription.endpoint field is:
Definition - The url that describes the actual end-point to send notifications to.
Short Display - Where the channel points to
Comment - For rest-hook the end-point must be an http: or https: URL; for websockets, ws: or wss:; for email, a mailto: url; and for message the endpoint can be in any form of url the server understands (usually, http/s: or mllp: The URI is allowed to be relative; in which case, it is relative to the server end-point (since there may be more than one, clients should avoid using relative URIs).
For websocket endpoints, the websocket and linked to one or more Subscriptions using $get-ws-binding-token. That does not seem to align with the websocket related text in the Comment. 
Is the field is to set by the client/is populated by the server/is empty for websocket? 
We should update the comment to reflect the intended use. Alternatively, refer to the https://build.fhir.org/subscription.html#channels section and state the content is defined in the channel specific section of that paragraph.
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-47344
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Subscription
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/subscription-definitions.html#Subscription.endpoint
- **Reporter**: Bas van den Heuvel
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Change:
{quote}
*Definition* - The url that describes the actual end-point to send notifications to.
*Short Display* - Where the channel points to
*Comment* - For rest-hook the end-point must be an http: or https: URL; for websockets, ws: or wss:; for email, a mailto: url; and for message the endpoint can be in any form of url the server understands (usually, http/s: or mllp: The URI is allowed to be relative; in which case, it is relative to the server end-point (since there may be more than one, clients should avoid using relative URIs).
{quote}

to:

{quote}
*Definition* - Channel-specific URL that describes where notifications are sent.
*Short Display* - URL where the channel sends notifications
*Comment* - The URL requirements are based on channel type. For example, in a {{rest-hook}} channel, the URL must use the {{http}} or {{https}} protocol and be supplied by the client; in a {{websocket}} channel, the URL uses the {{ws}} or {{wss}} protocol and is supplied by the server.

Note that the URI is allowed to be relative. Relative URLs are relative to the FHIR server base URL (since there may be more than one, clients should avoid using relative URIs).
{quote}
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Subscription - enpoint definition needs improvement
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-47344

## Comments

### 1. Gino Canessa - 3/31/25
Security: Public

Approved as block vote: https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/FHIRI/pages/325460673/FHIR+Infrastructure+Minutes+CC+2025-03-31#FHIRInfrastructureMinutesCC20250331-Gino%3ABlockVote-Subscriptions

### 2. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

