# FHIR-48941: Support having multiple definition values on questionnaire item

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Lloyd McKenzie
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: For the SDC ballot, will include a note to balloters indicating that 'definition' will likely repeat and there will be an extension to convey additional repetitions.  Will indicate that there is no meaning associated to which definition appears in the main 'definition' element vs. the extension.  Systems may choose to only include the extension rather than the core element if they don't want to pick a single element from their list.

Will send the question of whether to change the cardinality or to add an extension to support extra repetitions.  I.e. is a breaking change ok?
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 12/5/24
- **Created**: 12/4/24
- **Description**: Update the cardinality on the definition property to support more than 1 value.

This would then support extraction into multiple resource types/profiles for the same item in a questionnaire.

e.g. To support populating both a resource and provenance from the same thing.

Or to create both a RelatedPerson, and also Patient.contact from the same data in a form item.
- **Grouping**: [SDC, SDC-CORE]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-48941
- **Related Artifact(s)**: Questionnaire

QuestionnaireResponse
- **Related URL**: http://build.fhir.org/questionnaire.html
- **Reporter**: Brian Postlethwaite
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Support having multiple definition values on questionnaire item

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-48941

## Comments

### 1. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/5/24
Security: Public

For the SDC ballot, will include a note to balloters indicating that 'definition' will likely repeat and there will be an extension to convey additional repetitions.  Will indicate that there is no meaning associated to which definition appears in the main 'definition' element vs. the extension.  Systems may choose to only include the extension rather than the core element if they don't want to pick a single element from their list.

Will send the question of whether to change the cardinality or to add an extension to support extra repetitions.  I.e. is a breaking change ok?

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 12/9/24
Security: Public

Git master bb46c43

### 3. Lloyd McKenzie - 3/18/25
Security: Public

Git master 7ed94c74ba

### 4. RamandeepDhanoa - 7/7/25
Security: Public

Fix Questionnaire.definition cardinality to 0..*

