# FHIR-46311: Clarify functionality of 'version' search parameter

## Metadata

- **__EMPTY**: Rene Spronk
- **__EMPTY_1**: Public
- **__EMPTY_2**: If we assume the versioning of canonical artifacts to use semantic versioning, does that mean that if we're search an artifact by using the 'url' and 'version' parameters (or a | version in the url) that the version should be a 'semantic version match' ? 

The question boils down to: does the 'version' parameter use ':below' as a default matching mechanism &#91;if the version is interpreted as using semantic versioning&#93;, or is it an exact match (':exact') ?

If you want to include patches, I would exclude that portion from the reference (e.g., |1.0 instead of |1.0.0). IMO (and based on the current rules), all specified components need to match. So fully qualifying a version should only ever match that version exactly.

Please clarify usage of semantic versioning when searching.

Discussion on zulip: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/semantic.20versioning.20.2F.20version.20parameter
- **Assignee**: Unassigned
- **Comments**: 7/5/24
- **Created**: 7/5/24
- **Grouping**: [AwaitingMerge]
- **Issue Type**: Change Request
- **Key**: FHIR-46311
- **Related Page(s)**: Search
- **Related Section(s)**: https://build.fhir.org/references.html#canonical-matching
- **Related URL**: https://build.fhir.org/search.html#versions
- **Reporter**: Rene Spronk
- **Resolution**: Persuasive
- **Resolution Description**: Clarify that a default search for a canonical version is performed as a {{token}} search (exact match).

Callers wanting version-based hierarchy searches should use the {{:below}} modifier.
- **Status**: Applied
- **Summary**: Clarify functionality of 'version' search parameter
- **Work Group**: FHIR Infrastructure

- **Jira**: https://jira.hl7.org/browse/FHIR-46311

## Comments

### 1. Rene Spronk - 7/5/24
Security: Public

If we assume the versioning of canonical artifacts to use semantic versioning, does that mean that if we're search an artifact by using the 'url' and 'version' parameters (or a | version in the url) that the version should be a 'semantic version match' ? 

The question boils down to: does the 'version' parameter use ':below' as a default matching mechanism &#91;if the version is interpreted as using semantic versioning&#93;, or is it an exact match (':exact') ?

If you want to include patches, I would exclude that portion from the reference (e.g., |1.0 instead of |1.0.0). IMO (and based on the current rules), all specified components need to match. So fully qualifying a version should only ever match that version exactly.

Please clarify usage of semantic versioning when searching.

Discussion on zulip: https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179166-implementers/topic/semantic.20versioning.20.2F.20version.20parameter

### 2. Lloyd McKenzie - 7/22/24
Security: Public

Gino Canessa will ping the implementer community for their thoughts on this

### 3. Gino Canessa - 11/10/25
Security: Public

https://github.com/HL7/fhir/pull/3967

